Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Teesside University

 1. Context and mission
Teesside University is a post-1992 institution with approximately 18,500 students and 2,300
members of staff. Staff eligible to be submitted to the REF number 620 FTE. Thirty-nine per cent of
eligible staff (240.1 FTE) have Significant Responsibility for Research (SRfR), with at least 20 per
cent of their workload allocated to research.
Over the period, approximately 11 per cent of our average turnover of £138m a year has been
generated from knowledge-exchange activity and three per cent from research. In addition, the
university receives around £1.5m of annual quality related (QR) research income.
The Tees Valley, 307 square miles of north-east England with a population of 701,818, is led by an
elected mayor governing five combined-authority areas: Darlington, Hartlepool, Middlesbrough,
Redcar and Cleveland, and Stockton-on-Tees. The university campus is based in Middlesbrough,
with some business-facing units (the Centre for Professional and Executive Development and the
National Horizons Centre) based in Darlington, accessible on the East Coast Mainline.
Teesside is a centre for the chemical and process industries, with a developing focus on energy
generation, biosciences and digital innovation that builds on Teesside’s heritage as a pioneering
industrial centre with a highly skilled workforce. Structural economic changes have, however, led to
significant local deprivation. Based on the UK government’s index of multiple deprivation in
England (2019), Middlesbrough is in the most deprived one per cent of areas, alongside
Hartlepool, and Redcar and Cleveland.
As an anchor institution, the university is an important employer in the region with a commitment to
the Tees Valley that is supported by civic agreements. We play a leading role in supporting the
local economy and our research underpins initiatives delivered in partnership with the Tees Valley
Combined Authority (TVCA) and others. To drive economic growth in the Tees Valley, we are
building a £12m Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre in partnership with TVCA and in 2019 we
opened the £22m National Horizons Centre for the biosciences.
As a University Alliance member, we work with other HEIs to transform major regions, cities and
communities across the UK by educating the professional workforce of the future, providing flexible
and responsive R&D to businesses, and working to solve the problems facing society.
Post-REF2014, our corporate plan for 2015-20 (Teesside 2020) set out our long-term ambition to
become an international university at the heart of our region with a reputation for academic
excellence. As part of that plan, we aimed to grow the volume and quality of research to underpin
our core academic mission and to ensure that our research makes a difference to individuals,
organisations and society.
This vision is supported by our institutional mission statement: “Teesside University generates and
applies knowledge that contributes to the economic, social and cultural success of students,
partners and the communities we serve. Through education enriched by research, innovation, and
engagement with business and the professions, we transform lives and economies.”
The university has five academic schools: Computing, Engineering and Digital Technologies;
Health and Life Sciences; Social Sciences, Humanities and Law; Teesside University Business
School; and the MIMA School of Art and Design, based at the Middlesbrough Institute of Modern
Art (MIMA).
Our research is organised under eight research centres aligned to the schools: the Centre for
Applied Psychological Science; the Centre for Culture and Creativity; the Centre for Digital


                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Innovation; the Centre for Public Health; the Centre for Rehabilitation; the Centre for Social
Innovation; the Centre for Sustainable Engineering; and the National Horizons Centre.
We facilitate interdisciplinary collaborations through three grand challenge themes: creating
vibrant, cohesive and resilient and societies; forging a smarter, greener industrial economy; and
shaping the future of health, care and wellbeing. These drive institutional research priorities aligned
to regional growth, the UK’s industrial strategy and the UN’s sustainable development goals
(SDG).
In line with our institutional research strategy, the FTE of staff submitted to REF2021 has
increased nearly threefold compared with REF2014. Historically, the university’s research was
conducted through small, semi-autonomous research institutes, with 77.34 FTE submitted to RAE
2008 in six UoA, and 87.4 FTE in eight UoA in REF2014. The integration of research as an
academic function of Schools has allowed substantial development of the university’s research
capacity over the current REF cycle, rapidly growing the proportion of research active staff: 240.1
FTE will be submitted to REF2021 across five UoAs:


•        Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy (60.5 FTE)
•        Art and Design – History, Practice and Theory (48 FTE).
•        Engineering (78.6 FTE)
•        Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience (18.3 FTE)
•        Social Work and Social Policy (34.7 FTE)


Around one-third of staff returned (32%, 75.8 FTE) are early career researchers (ECRs), compared
with one-quarter (26%, 22.2 FTE) in 2014. This increase reflects our institutional strategy to grow
an inclusive research culture and sustainable research base through the recruitment of early-
career, research-active staff with a PhD. Enacting Teesside 2020 has increased academic staff
qualified to doctoral level from 38% in 2015 to 49% in 2020. Research and academic staff
recruitment has increased (from 52 staff in 2013/14 to 103 staff in 2019/20). 26% of staff recruited
over the period were less than 30, and 65% less than 40. 25% of recruited staff during this period
were aged 41 to 50, and 9% of recruited staff were aged over 51.
Areas with a track record of strong submissions to the REF, and in some cases previous research
assessment exercises, include allied health professions, engineering and social policy. The art and
design unit was submitted for the first time in REF2014 and has since followed an upward
trajectory in terms of research development and the research environment.
A submission in psychology will be made for the first time in REF2021, as part of the targeted
development of this unit and the further alignment of our research expertise with undergraduate
and postgraduate degree programmes, which are areas of learning and teaching strength.

    2. Strategy
As part of Teesside 2020, we put in place the foundations to support growth of future research
quality. We restructured our schools to bring together compatible disciplines and facilities (for
example engineering with computing, biosciences with health). We embedded our research
institutes into schools to strengthen research environments and formalised our research centres to
focus on areas of research strength. We invested £10.5m in doctoral training, recruited 144.8 FTE
staff with SRfR (74.2 FTE or 51% of whom are ECRs), and created grand challenge themes


                                                                                                 Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals to facilitate interdisciplinary working and drive
institutional research priorities.
Teesside 2020 supported our researchers’ careers through the introduction of an Academic
Promotions Framework identifying career progression routes and success criteria for a research
and enterprise pathway. An improved Professional Development Plan and Review (PDPR) process
uses an annual cycle of setting objectives and reviewing achievements, alongside the identification
of longer-term career aspirations and development needs. A new Workload Framework and
Academic Workload Allocation Model ensures research is accounted for with appropriate workload
allocations, and a comprehensive Researcher Development Programme (RDP) provides training
opportunities for staff and students (see section 2, People). We also reconfigured disparate
support for research and impact into a central professional Research and Innovation Services
(RIS) department, with 15.1 FTE staff.
Teesside’s new strategic plan for 2020-25, Ambition Delivered Today, builds on the progress we
have made. To continue to grow a sustainable research base and to support a vibrant and
responsible research culture we will:
   •   sustain and develop our research base through strategic investment and effective
   governance
   •   increase research quality through researcher development, international collaboration and
   industry engagement
   •   create a responsible and resilient research environment that promotes diversity, inclusion
   and integrity
   •   maximise the visibility and impact of our research through open science, public and policy
   engagement, knowledge exchange and our role as a civic university
   •  grow and diversify research income by expanding our research networks and engaging in
   demand-led collaborations with external partners.
We have developed the Teesside University Impact Framework, bringing together schools, RIS
and the Department of Academic Enterprise (DAE) to drive impact that is evidence-based,
strategic and significant. Using the framework, research centres have identified impact pathways,
including research-informed policy and practice, enterprise and knowledge exchange, public and
civic engagement, and global sustainable development.
Open research
We are committed to ensuring our research is open and accessible. Since 2010, our Open Access
(OA) Publications Policy has mandated staff to deposit outputs, including non-textual and practice-
based work, in our institutional repository. The Pure system enables staff to manage their outputs
with the digital collections team in Library and Student Services and comply with our OA policy.
Our institutional open access compliance for all outputs is 95%.
We refreshed our Research Data Management (RDM) policy in 2019-20 and procured a data-
management system, to be fully implemented in early 2021. Our RDM policy is aligned to the
European Commission open-science principles to ensure data are findable, accessible,
interoperable, and reusable (FAIR). It sets out the responsibilities of staff and the university to
publicly share digital and non-digital research data. The system will enable staff and doctoral
students to deposit and make research data sets publicly available via Pure.
Through the RDP, we provide bite-sized briefings on understanding OA and RDM and creating
data management plans. This provision will be expanded as part of the implementation of the RDM
policy.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Regional and national research priorities
As a civic university, we play a leading role in supporting the local economy. Our research aligns to
the priorities set out in TVCA’s Strategic Economic Plan. It underpins initiatives delivered in
partnership with TVCA, such as business support and scale-up programmes and the Great Place
Tees Valley project, which supports arts, heritage and cultural activity across the Tees Valley.
In 2014, MIMA was incorporated into the university. An Arts Council England National Portfolio
Organisation and founding member of the Middlesbrough Cultural Partnership, MIMA plays a vital
role in the cultural ecology of north-east England. It supports public engagement in relation to
research, policy, practice and knowledge exchange.
Our research centres for applied psychological sciences, social policy and public health work with
TVCA, health trusts and community partners to address issues linked to deprivation, most recently
providing evidence to support the UK2070 regional inequalities commission.
We run three innovation centres in partnership with independent research and technology
organisation TWI, focusing on: the circular economy and recycling; healthcare innovation; and
industrial decarbonisation and hydrogen. The centres direct our research to local, national and
international priorities via collaborative R&D with industry partners. They support the TVCA’s
ambition for the Tees Valley to become a global leader in clean energy, low carbon and hydrogen,
and to achieve a net-zero-carbon industrial cluster by 2040.
Interdisciplinary and discipline-based research
We understand that complex societal challenges demand interdisciplinary approaches, using
expertise from various perspectives to solve them. Facilitating interdisciplinary research was a
priority of Teesside 2020 and continues be part of our research plans for 2020-25. Through our
grand challenges and research centres we will address UN goals related to health and wellbeing,
gender equality, clean water and sanitation, clean energy, reduced inequalities, sustainable cities,
and partnerships.
We have supported researchers to develop their interdisciplinary practice through our three grand
challenge themes, each of which has two co-leads (from different disciplines) and a steering group
of members from the research centres. The steering groups oversee plans to support
interdisciplinary collaboration and allocate internal pump-priming to develop applications for
external funding. The steering groups report to our University Research and Innovation Committee.
Our research centres focus on: applied psychological sciences; biosciences; culture and creativity;
digital innovation; public health; rehabilitation; social innovation; and sustainable engineering. The
centres sit under the governance structures of our schools, and report to school research and
innovation committees (RICs) on membership, research bidding and awards, output quality, impact
portfolios, and equality and diversity actions. Annual presentations to the university’s RIC review
performance and identify priorities for the coming year.
Research integrity
Our institutional Policy, Procedures and Guidelines for Research Ethics sets out the principles and
procedures for ensuring that research is conducted to the highest standards of quality, integrity,
ethical propriety and governance, and legal compliance. The Framework and Code of Practice for
Ensuring Research Integrity sets out principles for the good conduct of research, linked to national
and international frameworks and standards, and compliance with the Universities UK Concordat
to Support Research Integrity.
This work is overseen by the university research ethics and integrity sub-committee (UREISC),
which reports to the RIC and subsequently Academic Board. Each school has a research ethics
sub-committee, which implements procedures on ethics clearance for all research activities,

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
reporting to UREISC, while RIS provides central support for research integrity, working closely with
Legal and Governance Services, and acts as the secretariat for UREISC.
We subscribe to the UK Research Integrity Office, which provides advice and guidance, and
resources on ethics and integrity to all university staff.
Public engagement
As part of our 2020-25 strategy, we are committed to be an ‘engaged university’ working with
stakeholders to deliver transformational change and impact. In support of this we have developed
a Charter for Social Impact that outlines our commitments in terms of civic and public engagement,
knowledge exchange and impact. It identifies: the responsibilities of our leaders, staff and students
in delivering this ambition; actions required to embed stakeholder engagement; and resources
required to ensure that stakeholder-engagement becomes integral to the university’s operations.
Our RDP includes an introduction to public engagement and media training, including workshops
delivered by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement.
MIMA engages the community in events to explore art, science, politics, economics and culture,
via themes such as housing, migration, inequality, regeneration and healthcare. We run a
programme of public and professorial lectures, and regular One Fifteen events at MIMA to engage
the public with our research. We also participate in the annual Pint of Science festival, where staff
share their research in a local pub, bar or café.
We are a signatory to the UK Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research.

 3. People
Staffing strategy
The university’s staffing strategy supports its commitment to attract, retain, and reward staff, and
enable them to achieve their full potential. The university seeks to remove barriers to performance,
and to promote a healthy work-life balance by offering a flexible and supportive approach to
working arrangements.
Our Recruitment and Selection Policy sets out our objectives to: support recruitment, retention and
development of people to contribute to our mission and corporate objectives; ensure that the
recruitment and selection process is fair and transparent, free from bias, prejudice and
discrimination; maintain best practice and compliance with employment and equality legislation;
develop a workforce that reflects the diversity in society.
A Redeployment Policy supports researchers approaching the end of a fixed-term project contract.
Staff identified as at risk of redundancy are given priority consideration for new vacant posts for a
period of up to six months before the end of their contract. In addition, guidance from the
university’s careers service is available to researchers throughout their time at the university and
for two years after they leave.
Our Academic Promotions Pathways make it clear that opportunities for promotion are open to all
staff, regardless of working pattern, contract type or other factors. All applicants are measured
against the same criteria at each grade, taking account of any individual circumstances.
The Flexible Working Policy enables the consideration of working time (part-time and/or term-time
working patterns, phased retirement), location (secondments, volunteering), and time away from
the university (career breaks, sabbaticals). Applications for flexible working can only be refused in
specific circumstances, outlined in the policy, based on factors such as an unacceptable level of
additional cost or a detrimental effect on departmental quality or performance.



                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Staff with caring responsibilities are supported using the Flexible Working, Family Leave,
Emergency Leave and Carers policies. Staff returning to work after illness are supported with a
phased return where applicable, managed in agreement with line managers and schools.
Our University Staff Health and Wellbeing Strategy offers: stress risk assessments; a confidential
counselling service and online stress assessment tool; an in-house occupational health service;
phased returns following extended absence; training for managers on managing workplace stress;
sessions for staff on resilience; and gym facilities, exercise classes and fitness clubs. We hold a
Better Health at Work Continuing Excellence Award.
Equality and diversity
Our Equal Opportunities Policy confirms adherence to the principle of equal opportunity for all.
Staff are expected to complete mandatory training on equality and diversity within a three-year
period (95% compliance).
The Executive Equality and Inclusion Group (EEIG) oversees the application of equality and
diversity principles and directs the operations of the Equality and Inclusion Group (EIG) to deliver
change. Four subgroups representing various protected characteristics feed into the EIG around:
disability; ethnicity, gender; LGBTQ+; and religion and belief.
In support of equality, diversity and inclusivity, we: maintained our HR Excellence in Research
award (2017); secured an Athena Swan Bronze Institution Award (2018); retained our Investors In
People Gold status (2018), with the institution’s commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity
specifically commended; maintained our Stonewall Top 100 position (ranked 40th in 2020, a rise of
27 places from 2018); achieved Disability Confident, Leader status (2019); and became a signatory
to the Race at Work Charter, which is designed to improve the workplace outcomes for BAME
employees.
Our mean hourly gender pay gap (March 2019) shows that women’s wages are 14% lower than
men’s, compared with a sector average of 16%. The median hourly pay gap shows that women’s
wages are 28% lower than men’s, compared with the sector median of 15%. The latter reflects the
fact that we employ our manual staff whereas in many institutions these roles are contracted out.
Removing manual staff from the data would reduce the figures to 11% (mean) and 16% (median).
The figures for eligible staff (academic and independent research staff) are 0.4% (mean) and zero
(median).
Our Academic Promotions Pathways have been updated using REF guidance on the decoupling of
staff from outputs, to clarify that staff should not identify whether outputs included in promotion
applications have been submitted to REF. As a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on
Research Assessment (DORA) we have implemented a policy and supporting action plan on the
responsible use of quantitative indicators in research evaluation.
Our equality impact assessment (EIA) on staff returned to REF indicates three areas of concern
that will be addressed via the EEIG and continued actions, including under the auspices of the
Athena Swan Charter and LGBTQ+ EIG subgroup. The first is that, despite a 10 per cent increase
in female staff returned since 2014 (71 per cent of staff submitted to REF2014 by the university
were male), our assessment indicates the proportion of women who have been identified in 2020
as having SRfR is lower than the proportion of eligible staff across all UoAs except 32. In total, 45
per cent of eligible male staff have been identified as having SRfR, compared with 32 per cent of
eligible female staff. Overall, 61 per cent of staff identified as having SRfR are men.
The second area of concern is the low proportion of SRfR staff in the following age groups: 20-29
(25%); 50-59 (28%); and 60-plus (28%). A range of factors is likely to contribute to this, which



                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
further analysis may uncover. The third is the low disclosure rate against sexual orientation and
religion, which limits the extent to which conclusions can be drawn.
Our EIA data suggest no negative affect based on other protected characteristics.
Based on the UCEA definition, the characteristics of our senior staff include: 88% are white British;
48% are women and 52% men; 93% do not consider themselves to have a disability; 82% are
heterosexual (3% are LGBTQ); and 45% are Christian, 31% have no religion, 5% have another
religion, and 19% are unknown or prefer not to say.

Concordat to support career development of researchers
We implement the principles of the UUK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers via a Concordat Implementation and Enhancement Action Plan. We have a university
mentoring programme and job descriptions for readers and professors have been revised to
include mentoring of ECRs. Mentoring is organised within each school, to support output planning,
impact strategies, income generation and career progression.
Annually, staff apply for additional workload hours for research beyond standard Research and
Scholarly Activity time. Staff are asked to outline their research aspirations for the next five years
and agree three-year plans to work towards them. From 2019-20, staff have been allocated
workload hours for three years, to support the delivery of longer-term research plans.
Staff are required to complete an initial development plan and an annual PDPR with their line
manager, to review achievements, agree objectives including longer-term career aspirations and
plans, and identify development needs.
Researcher development programme
Our RDP, mapped to Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework, supports researchers at all
stages of their career. It includes postgraduate researchers (PGRs), ECRs, mid-career and
leadership programmes, and workshops covering research methods, supervision, evaluation, open
science, metrics, impact, and funding. It also includes strands for staff nominated to participate by
their school; for example, the Elevate Programme is targeted at staff who seek to build on their
success in research funding by applying for larger collaborative project funds. The Research
Leadership Programme supports aspiring leaders to reflect on their leadership style, support the
aspirations of others, strengthen research cultures and develop research strategies.
As well as the RDP, the university subscribes to organisations which provide support and digital
resources, including: AdvanceHE, which supports HEIs with transformative leadership and
management, equality, diversity and inclusion, and effective governance, including the
accreditation of teaching and learning programmes, Athena Swan, and the Race Equality Charter;
and Vitae, the professional organisation for researcher development.
Early-career researchers
We define ECRs as staff within the first five years of their first academic or independent researcher
post, contract researchers, and mid-career lecturers who are new to research. We introduced an
ECR Induction in 2018, to provide information resources and support to staff in this group. A
regular forum allows ECRs to share best practice, discuss common issues, and participate in
discussions on research. The chair of the ECR Forum reports to the university’s RIC.
A policy on fixed-term contracts outlines the support provided to contract research staff, including
support from career advisers, a redeployment process, and a process of consultation as fixed-term
contracts come to an end. Resources managed by the PVC R&I support bridging arrangements for
contract researchers where appropriate. 6.4 of the 240.1 FTE with SRfR are on fixed-term
contracts, mainly as a result of visa restrictions.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Research students
Over the period we have invested £10.5m in 157 studentships including 41 graduate tutors, who
hold a salaried position for four years and combine full-time PhD studies with a limited teaching
programme. They are offered the opportunity of a lecturer post following the conclusion of their
study.
In 2015, we joined the national University Alliance (UA) Doctorial Training Alliance (DTA) of 20
alliance universities and partner organisations, investing £1.2m to deliver 25 PhDs in: biosciences
(seven); energy (nine); and social policy (nine). In addition to a funded PhD, DTA students benefit
from: seminars on topic-specific training; a mandatory two-day induction for networking; an annual
two to three-day summer school and conference; and elective training events that bring the entire
DTA cohort together from participating institutions.
PGR students are supported by their supervisors, the postgraduate tutor in each school (who
provides support independently of the supervisory team), and RIS (training and support). New staff
complete a training programme on supervisors’ roles and responsibilities, doctoral project
management from admission to examination, practical supervision skills, and on our regulatory
framework for research degrees. Student and Library Services provides additional pastoral
support.
Students complete a training-needs assessment when submitting their application to study. Our
PGR programme is delivered at initial, mid, and completion stages. It includes project
management; epistemological and methodological issues; academic writing, editing and
presentation; the process of research; preparation for submission; and proofing of the thesis and
viva examination. It is complemented by optional sessions and discipline-specific, school-based
support.
Through our UK Council for Graduate Education subscription staff and students can create
accounts to access to range of reports, resources and guidance for doctoral supervisors.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Research Income
Academic-led proposals for research funding are supported by the research funding team in RIS,
industry-led collaborations are supported by the business innovation team in DAE. The teams work
together to map Teesside’s expertise to industry programmes and organise events with external
partners to promote collaborative opportunities.
Grant boards meet quarterly in each school to report on progress against research centres’ bidding
strategies, monitor staff bidding plans, review the outcomes of proposals, and celebrate success.
RIS and DAE staff are aligned to each of our research centres to support the centre leads to
develop stakeholder engagement and bidding plans and provide advice, guidance and support to
staff.
Our Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Board supports delivery of the university’s QR
GCRF strategy, including the allocation of QR GCRF funds, and supports staff to engage with
researchers from developing nations and to access official development assistance funds. It has
also put in place a new due diligence policy and supporting process.
Staff also have access to a bank of resources on funding via the RIS and DAE teams and through
our subscriptions to Research Professional and the UK Research Office (Brussels).
Infrastructure and facilities
In 2019, we opened our £22m National Horizons Centre bioscience facility with labs, equipment,
biosciences and technical staff to support collaborative industry R&D. In 2021, we are developing a

                                                                                            Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
£12m Net Zero Industry Innovation centre to generate collaborative R&D in clean energy, low
carbon and hydrogen. We will open a £22m Digital Life Centre in 2022, to support our growing
expertise in AI, machine learning and cybersecurity.
Alongside our institutional investment in these strategic projects, Research Capital Infrastructure
Funding of approximately £100,000 a year, is allocated to schools via an annual bidding process to
support facilities and laboratories.
Our annual QR allocation (£1.53m) supports research across the institution: approximately 54% is
delegated to schools; 13% supports studentships; and 33% is allocated by the PVC R&I against
strategic initiatives. The PVC’s QR has been used to contribute to collaborations such as FUSE
(the centre for Translational Research in Public Health supported by the region’s five universities),
which gives us access to cross-institutional infrastructure, and the three TWI innovation centres
(outlined in section 1) to generate collaborative research income and industry partnerships using
TWI’s specialist facilities.
We have also invested in systems including the Pure current research information system and
repository, the Mendeley RDM system, and a Unit 4 research-costing tool. The intelligence
generated from these systems has informed our research strategy and led to more effective
research management. QR has also been used to provide bridge funding for researchers, fund
consultants to deliver training and research services, and to contribute to the full economic costs of
research.




                                                                                               Page 9
