Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Salford

 1. Context and mission

 Salford gained university status in 1967, having started in 1896 as the Royal Technical Institute,
 and has maintained focus on developing global reach through partnerships, whilst remaining
 committed to driving impact internationally, nationally and locally. This is reflected in our vision: to
 pioneer exceptional industry partnerships that will lead the way in real-world experiences,
 preparing students for life. In 2019/20, the University had more than 21,000 students, with a
 postgraduate researcher (PGR) community of over 600 from 43 countries.

 We are committed to undertaking research that is globally relevant, especially within low- and
 middle-income countries where our expertise is used effectively to support governments and
 communities to enhance socially inclusive disaster resilience, health and midwifery, infrastructure
 and environmental sustainability. Testament to this ongoing commitment is our £5.5m EPSRC
 CDT in prosthetics and orthotics. At the forefront of our internationally renowned reputation for
 collaboration with industry is our Acoustics Research Group who work with high-quality goods
 manufacturers in Germany and beyond. Our work on net zero carbon is led by our investment in
 building and material energy efficiency through Energy Houses 1 & 2. Whilst our commitment to
 Build Back Better and improving productivity is evident in our investment in the North of England
 Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC).

 As a signatory to the Civic University Agreement, we work with stakeholders to address
 economic and societal challenges globally, nationally and within our city-region. Through our
 partnership with Salford City Council, the University has embarked on an ambitious 10 –15-year
 redevelopment strategy: Salford Crescent and University District Masterplan. The University
 is at the heart of this £2.5 billion, 240-acre major regeneration scheme, aimed at driving economic
 and social prosperity for the whole city and transforming the campus into a civic and cultural
 gateway. Alongside this a purpose-built Innovation Zone (circa 3 million ft2 of floorspace) will
 ensure we achieve our research aspirations and strengthen links between our research, skills
 training and employers. It is here where NERIC and Energy House 2 are under construction, with
 future plans to open a dedicated Acoustics building, followed by a new facility for our Human
 Movement and Rehabilitation research.

 The University recently restructured into 4 Schools (Figure 1). Research and postgraduate
 activities are supported through 8 interdisciplinary Research Centres. The University’s research
 strategy is the responsibility of our PVC Research and Enterprise, supported by the Schools’
 Associate Deans for Research and Innovation (ADRIs) and the Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (RKE) Directorate. RKE is the central hub supporting researcher training and
 development, research bidding, KTPs and partnership development, and the home of the Doctoral
 School to support postgraduate researchers (Figure 1).

 The disciplinary mix we present in our REF2021 submission has developed over 50 years,
 demonstrating a steady broadening of our research base and sustained success in these fields.
 Reflecting the University’s history as a technical institution, we submitted primarily to STEM
 disciplines in the Research Assessment Exercises of the 1990s, with the addition of sociology,
 European studies and library & information management in 1996. By RAE2008, we had expanded
 our research strengths into the built environment, allied health professions, business and 4
 additional arts and humanities subjects. This closely mirrors the 11 units of assessment to which
 we submit in 2021.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 Figure 1. Overview of Salford’s research structures and support.




                                                                    Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 Achievement of strategic research goals

 The University’s Research Strategy is articulated as a long-term vision with formal reviews every
 3 years to ensure our institutional direction and goals align with external drivers and the evolving
 research landscape for the sector. The focus of the 2014-2020 Research Strategy was to
 develop, support and promote high-quality research with impact, prioritising those areas where
 the University is unique or otherwise leading. This was implemented through 4 interlinking strands
 focused on our systems supporting and enabling research:

    •   Platforms: Formation of 8 new Research Centres (RCs) to improve research cohesion
        and interdisciplinary collaboration (Figure 1).

    •   Partnerships: The development and management of strategic external partnerships to
        generate engagement and income.

    •   PGR support: Creation of a Doctoral School, overseen by a new academic Director role,
        to improve central support and offer a clear profile for doctoral candidates across subject
        areas.

    •   Professional Services support: creation of RKE as a standalone department, with
        oversight by the Deputy V-C, as well as a dedicated Dean of Research and ultimately a
        PVC Research and Enterprise.

 In response to a changing external environment at local, national and international level, we
 updated our Research Strategy in 2016-17. The Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategy
 2017-2027 frames a 10-year commitment to grow and support our outstanding areas of research
 to address the challenges of living in the Anthropocene era. In developing this strategy, our current
 research expertise was aligned to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), as well
 as national and regional industrial policy, thereby ensuring that our research delivers social and
 economic benefit at all levels. Since its inception, Salford has been a University committed to
 producing foundational research and its application through partnership working. The strategy sets
 out our response to key global challenges and we implement our activities through an Industry
 Collaboration lens, which defines our ethos and research culture.

 Through discussion and co-creation with our research community, we determined key themes for
 the future of our research. We have successfully brought together researchers under these key
 themes, fostering new cross-disciplinary research clusters and we continue to invest resources
 and support their development through our interdisciplinary RCs:

    1. Industry 4.0: How can innovations in technology deliver improved productivity?

    2. Ageing and Bio-health: How can we live well for longer?

    3. Energy, Housing and Infrastructure: How can we house 9 billion people?

    4. Sustainability and Environmental Quality: How can we maintain a planet which is
       beneficial for humankind and all other life?

    5. Creative and Resilient Communities: How can we manage crises without undermining
       civil society?

 From 2017, the 5 strategic objectives have been actively addressed through revision of our
 investment priorities and central research support systems:



                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 OBJECTIVE 1: Focus on the development of novel technologies to create state-of-the-art
 solutions to address research challenges within our key themes.

 Our current and future focus for strategic investment lies in 3 distinct areas: ‘Robotics’, ‘Digital’,
 and ‘Smart and Sustainable Living’. These have huge growth potential as they align with
 government priorities. They are areas in which we are approaching a critical mass of research
 expertise, research-informed teaching provision, enterprise and business engagement activities,
 which will help us use our research expertise to deliver tangible, real-world impact.

 We have already seen substantial success for our lead area of Robotics, acquiring £13m ERDF
 and Research England funding (match funded by £4.6m from the University) to create the North
 of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC). This will house robotics, manufacturing
 laboratories, automotive facilities and teaching space. It will serve as a UK hub led by the
 University’s Autonomous Systems and Robotics group (UoA12) to work with businesses seeking
 innovative solutions for infrastructure, supply chains and health technology in a post-COVID world.

 OBJECTIVE 2: Work with our industry partners to train postgraduates conversant with the latest
 technologies and practices, who will bring creativity and innovation into the workplace.

 We place considerable importance on providing support to our PGR community to enhance their
 student experience and we increasingly link the Salford PhD experience to our Industry
 Collaboration principles by developing new programmes. For example, the Salford iCASE
 studentships drawing in funding from industry project partners and the Graduate Enterprise
 Studentship that enables research candidates to undertake commercial work alongside original
 research, helping them to conceptualise, undertake and translate research to meet industry needs.
 Through our Creative Coach provision, we enable research students working in STEM subjects
 to request a coach as part of their supervisory team to advise on impact, novel public engagement
 approaches and ways of thinking differently about their research project.

 OBJECTIVE 3: Deliver an integrated, two-way knowledge exchange pathway from excellent
 discovery research, through applied research, to exploitation and impact.

 A priority for the University is that our research activities and their outcomes are used to address
 and improve social issues and contribute to economic benefits. During this REF period we have
 improved the opportunities for impact through internal connectivity, embedding impact generation
 in the design and management of research projects, as well as targeting internal funding towards
 support for impact. RKE works closely with School Impact Coordinators to establish impact action
 plans and to implement a programme of activity for training and development.

 To underpin research impact activities a Research Impact Fund, allocated from QR, was
 established in 2015/16 and has provided £193k to support researchers in increasing the reach
 and significance of their research, support collection of evidence to corroborate this activity and to
 assist with the development of impact from new research projects.

 OBJECTIVE 4: Expand our partnerships base across higher education, industry, and
 communities globally, and work with the wider public to co-create and expand the reach and
 impact of our research.

 Our Industry Collaboration Director drives the expansion of our external networks, making the
 University accessible for industry and ensuring we understand the needs of businesses, targeting
 areas of mutual interest around our 5 key themes to develop activities that align to the strategic
 priorities of both the University and our partners. Our Public Affairs team develops and maintains
 relationships with local stakeholders and policymakers, strengthening links with local government
 and public sector organisations. This includes identifying and communicating opportunities for our
 academics to contribute to policy consultations.



                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 As a signatory to the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement’s manifesto, we
 organise and participate in local and national festivals to engage the public in our research and
 encourage them to become part of our wider impact, e.g. Manchester Science Festival and
 ESRC Festival of Social Science. Our University Festival of Research was established in 2018
 as an annual event that provides a platform to connect with the local community, involving them
 in our research and ensuring it generates beneficial outcomes for them.

 OBJECTIVE 5: Be an international leader and destination of choice for researcher training and
 career development, providing a supportive and inclusive research environment. Enable all to
 achieve their potential.

 In 2010, we were one of the first institutions to be awarded the European Commission’s HR
 Excellence in Research Award. With renewal confirmed in 2018, we are one of only 8 institutions
 to retain this award for the maximum period of 8 years. Researcher training and development
 provision was revised in 2016/17 to provide a comprehensive range of support mechanisms for
 individual development needs. We have aligned this to our new career development framework
 for academics: the Salford Academic (see section 3).

 Commitment to research integrity

 The University’s Research Code of Practice outlines our commitment to conducting all research
 and impact activities with the highest levels of integrity. To ensure effective governance, our
 activity includes:

    •   Administration of a suite of research integrity policies overseen by University Senate
        and Council and reviewed annually
    •   Publication of an annual report on research integrity practice, development, training and
        reporting, in accordance with the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity
    •   Management through RKE of research ethics approval via an online Ethics App: all staff
        with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR) act as ethics reviewers, with training to
        support new reviewers, thus conveying a message of University-wide responsibility
    •   Mandatory training undertaken by all new starters (staff and PGRs) through a 2-part
        induction module on research ethics and integrity.

 Supporting open access and open research practices

 We believe that embracing a culture of open research is essential to achieving our institutional
 mission of industry collaboration and real-world learning. By providing unrestricted online access
 wherever possible to the full range of our research outputs, we aim to maximise their visibility,
 accessibility and use, helping to ensure they realise their potential to make significant academic,
 economic, social and cultural impacts. Provided by the Library, our support includes:

    •   Open Access policy (from 2015), requiring all in-scope research outputs to be deposited
        in the University of Salford Institutional Repository (USIR) and made open access (91%
        compliance for 2019/20). A recent revision (2019) requires ORCID identifiers for all authors
        and encourages the use of CC-BY licences. 100% of our current staff submitted to
        REF2021 have ORCID identifiers
    •   Research Data Management policy (from January 2016) encouraging open data sharing,
        including investment in a data repository
    •   Funding for Article Processing Charges (£35k-60k annually)
    •   Becoming a Signatory to the San Francisco Declaration On Research Assessment
        (DORA) in March 2019, to ensure we use metrics responsibly in research assessment. We
        are developing an action plan to translate these principles into everyday practice.

 Clifford Whitworth Library supports access to USIR ensuring our research outputs are
 disseminated widely. Salford was an early adopter of a research repository (2007) and downloads

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 already exceeded 40,000 per month at the start of this REF period. During the census period
 outputs were downloaded 6.1 million times, according to Jisc’s Institutional Repository Usage
 Statistics (IRUS-UK), placing USIR 9th in the sector for usage.

 3. People

 Staffing strategy and ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR)

 Given the links between research and teaching at Salford, each new appointment is based on the
 joint consideration of research expertise and teaching contributions and the fit with current
 strengths or needs in both. The majority (91%) of our academics over the REF period have been
 employed on a ‘teaching and research’ contract, allowing flexibility for career development through
 specialised pathways: Research, Teaching & Learning, or Enterprise. Career development
 through these pathways has been formalised as our academic career framework, the Salford
 Academic (SA), which was co-developed by HR and academics to enable parity of esteem across
 all pathways, with equal access to opportunities for development, recognition and reward.

 As described in our REF2021 Code of Practice, our approach to determining staff with SRR
 involved two elements: research assessment taking into account quantitative information relating
 to the past REF cycle, alongside a development exercise of producing a forward-looking 3-year
 research plan. Although we are still in the process of formalising a policy on the use of metrics in
 research assessment, we considered examples of best practice during construction of our SRR
 process (e.g. the Leiden Manifesto), which led to the SRR assessment containing multiple
 quantitative indicators across a portfolio of activity supported by qualitative context and assessed
 through peer review. Staff have been identified as currently meeting the SRR benchmark (returned
 to REF2021) or designated as ‘Next-Generation’ researchers who are newer to research and need
 targeted support and development. The minimum SRR criteria have been aligned to the SA
 Research pathway and Schools have devised individual support requirements for their NG
 researchers to enable them to reach SRR level.

 Our primary mechanism for resourcing research (via QR) is through allocation of research
 workload to academic staff. The new SA Research pathway and SRR process has enabled us to
 standardise this, ensuring that from 2020/21 all researchers are assessed against consistent,
 institutional-level criteria and all staff meeting this benchmark are allocated a minimum of 20
 workload units to support research and impact-generating activities (where the majority of
 workload allocations sit between 95 and 105 units).

 Commitment to inclusion and diversity

 Since our academics, research staff and PGRs are at the heart of our research strategy, we are
 resolute in our drive to raise the standard of the research support and development we provide.
 Central to this work is our commitment to working towards a more inclusive research environment
 supported by HR policies around flexible working, recruitment and progression, wellbeing and our
 involvement in national equality charters.

 The University joined the Athena SWAN charter in 2015 and was awarded Institutional bronze in
 2016. Subsequently, 4 out of our 7 legacy Schools achieved Athena SWAN bronze awards and
 currently H&S and SEE are working towards new submissions: silver and interim bronze,
 respectively. The University is progressing with a submission to the Race Equality Charter (2021;
 delayed by COVID-19) and we participate in several national schemes to ensure our approaches
 are inclusive: we are accredited as a ‘Disability Confident’ employer, a long-standing member of
 Stonewall and a member of Inclusive Employers, a leading organisation for employers looking to
 build inclusive workplaces.

 In REF2014, 32% of our submitted staff were female and across the University 24% of eligible
 women were submitted compared with 42% of eligible men. We are encouraged that our REF2021
 submission comprises 41% women and that the gap between proportion of eligible men and

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 women included has decreased by 7% (31% eligible women compared with 42% men). Our
 gender pay gap for academic staff is 11.1% (median) and 9.9% (mean) (March 2019). The majority
 of submitted staff have been recruited in age ranges 35-49 (54%) and over 50 (40%) and within
 our Professors, 24% are female, 20% are from a BAME background, and the majority are over 50
 (76%). We recognise there is still substantial work to be done to address systemic issues
 contributing to under-representation of staff with protected characteristics and are committed to
 increasing the diversity of our researcher community.

 Staff development and training

 Our approach to training and development is situated within the national context for researcher
 career development, ensuring we incorporate best practice, while maintaining an influence within
 UK and regional networks. Salford is the Northwest hub for Vitae and our Researcher
 Development Officer is the regional coordinator for the Northwest, with key input into the
 development of Vitae’s international conference. We are involved in inter-institutional projects to
 promote a mid-career researcher mentoring programme, as well as PGR networking events. We
 further support specific networks, such as UK Research Staff Association and The Technician
 Commitment.

 The Salford Early to Experienced Career Research & Enterprise Training (SECRET)
 programme offers a comprehensive package open to all researcher career stages and is aligned
 to the SA Research Pathway. External experts regularly contribute to the delivery of aspects of
 our programme to provide a range of perspectives and training in specific key skills. It is aligned
 with Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework (RDF) and part of our alignment to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, providing:

    •   Technical workshops covering quantitative and qualitative methods
    •   Support for the development of grant applications
    •   Research impact workshops tailored to differing levels of experience, from limited to
        significant
    •   Personalised support for research impact realisation over the long term through the guided
        development of an impact action plan (98 plans established during the REF period)
    •   Guidance on planning for dissemination of research outputs and publication strategies,
        including Open Access
    •   One-to-one narrative mentoring sessions with an external trainer from the Royal
        Literary Fund
    •   Leadership development, mentoring, confidence enhancement and coaching
    •   Media engagement and communication training.

 Early career researcher (ECR) support, progression and retention

 RCs are the primary drivers of our research activities and support, providing leadership and vision
 aligned to University strategy. These are inclusive structures bringing together academics, as well
 as research staff and technicians. As our number of fixed-term contract researchers is low (33 at
 the census date), it is more effective to provide support and development within these spaces
 instead of a cross-University initiative.

 Our group of ECRs includes those who are new to academic research, having had successful
 careers outside of Higher Education. For example, from a clinical practice or creative background.
 To transition into research we provide support (research workload and a supervisory team) to
 undertake a PhD by published works. For new academics we have offered the Vice-Chancellor’s
 Early Career Research Scholarship. This scheme provided bursaries of £1k-2k over 2 years,
 with additional research workload and a senior research mentor. It has supported 70 new
 members of staff and, excluding leavers, 75% of this group are included in this REF submission.
 During this REF period, 11 individuals supported in this way have been promoted: 8 to Reader
 and 3 to Professor.


                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 PGR recruitment, training and development

 The Doctoral School has overseen the formalisation of the PGR journey with a series of
 checkpoints and assessments now in place throughout the PhD programme and mandatory
 supervisor training for first-time supervisors with refresher training every 3 years. This has ensured
 a high-quality experience, as we have supported a significant increase in the size of our
 community; from 503 PhD awards in REF2014 to 998 in REF2021.

 We deliver extensive training and development targeted to PGRs: the Salford Postgraduate
 Research Training (SPoRT) programme, aligned with Vitae’s RDF. This is designed to help
 PGRs develop the skills for effective research as well as transferable skills to enhance
 employability, whether for a career in the public or private sectors, or in academia. The headline
 activity in the SPoRT programme is the Salford Postgraduate Annual Research Conference
 (SPARC), run as part of our Festival of Research. SPARC enables PGRs and ECRs from all
 disciplines to become involved in organising events and presenting their own research in order to
 gain experience of conference participation.

 Additional support during this REF period has included:

    •   Competitive, internally-funded studentships for prospective PGRs across all disciplines,
        including the Graduate Teaching Scheme (GTS) and Pathway to Excellence awards
    •   Funding to attend international conferences
    •   English for Academic Purposes and Wordscope for students whose first language is
        not English
    •   Funding for 10-12 PhD students each year to communicate research to schools through
        The Brilliant Club widening participation training scheme
    •   PGR Wellbeing Concordat based around core principles that improve accessibility to
        support and increase wellness awareness among key academic and professional staff.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income generation

 Directed by our 2017-2027 Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategy, our approach to income
 generation follows our vision to ensure research contributes meaningfully to global
 challenges relating to technological change and the effects of human activity on our
 environment. In accordance with our Industry Collaboration principles, income generation is also
 aligned to our approach to partnership building, where we pursue relationships that are meaningful
 for multiple purposes, supporting research and innovation alongside education and employability.
 This enhanced focus on partnerships is realised through 2 mechanisms: new professional services
 roles (section 1; objective 4) and new governance.

 To support the University in achieving our aims for the 2017-2027 strategy, a new institutional
 support mechanism was created in 2018: our Strategic Funding Committee. This brings together
 School ADRIs, Directors of Professional Services and RKE management, ensuring a University-
 wide perspective for strategic bids. Our first success was the award of the EPSRC CDT, which
 saw its first cohort of students join in 2019/20. This was followed by further success for the North
 of England Robotics Innovation Centre, part-funded by the ERDF (secured in 2020; funded 2020-
 2022).

 QR supports income generation, either directly as grants for pump-priming and network-building,
 or indirectly through conference attendance. Resulting from this, and other support, our income
 across this REF period totals over £44.6m with an average of £6.4m per year. Nearly 60% of our
 income has been acquired from a combination of UK government, industry and other sources
 (£16.2m; 36%) and Research Councils (£10.4m; 23%). We have been successful in acquiring
 income from all 7 Research Councils, predominantly from EPSRC and NERC for key themes 1-4.
 In addition, EU programmes (e.g. Horizon 2020) have supported work aligned to our theme of

                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Creative and Resilient Communities. We have acquired funding from Innovate UK (£4.9m) to
 facilitate 41 KTP projects with industry partners. Our expertise in securing awards through
 schemes such as this extends back to the pilots in 1975. This forms a key part of our funding
 portfolio, given its alignment with our Industry Collaboration strategy.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 A key enabler for the University’s RKE strategy is the quality of the physical assets on campus
 and we have continued to invest in new, state-of-the-art facilities during this REF period. The
 Campus Masterplan ensures our future campus will provide the necessary infrastructure to
 continue our excellent and innovative research in the coming years, allowing us to leverage
 external investment to translate our vision into reality. Investment during this REF period and the
 next 5 years includes:

 Creative and Resilient Communities:

 New Adelphi building (£55m), opened in 2016, with its 350-capacity theatre, large gallery space,
 rehearsal and voice acting studios. The facility supports research and creative collaborations for
 our Arts and Media Research Centre (AMCRC) and acts as a cultural hub for the city. Going
 forward, the Masterplan will enable us to fully realise the potential of our campus’s cultural and
 heritage sites, such as New Adelphi and Salford Museum and Art Gallery, to create a creative
 gateway benefitting Salford and Manchester’s creative scene and furthering AMCRC’s agenda.

 Industry 4.0, Energy, Housing and Infrastructure, and Sustainability and Environmental
 Quality:

 External support from ERDF together with University strategic investment is supporting new
 facilities to be completed within the first phase of the Campus Masterplan (2020-2024):

    •   The SEE building (£65m) (work began July 2020). Opening in 2022, it consolidates the
        existing Science, Engineering and Environment facilities into one space to provide
        collaborative workshops and laboratories at the heart of campus, as well as enabling
        interdisciplinary collaboration across the new School
    •   Energy House 2.0 (£16.5m secured in 2018) opens in 2021 and builds on the success
        of Energy House, launched in 2011 as a unique facility for energy and sustainability
        research
    •   North of England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) (£17.6m secured in 2019)
        opens in 2022 supporting engineering, computer science and health technology research
    •   Future developments include an Acoustics building, supporting acoustics and built
        environment, engineering and environmental science research.

 Ageing and Biohealth:

    •   The £3.2m Bodmer laboratory and £1.6m, 600m2 Translational Medicine laboratory,
        opened in 2015
    •   The £525K Salford Genomics Facility, opened in 2016, to establish DNA sequencing
        and bioinformatics capabilities
    •   Other investments include a cardiac physiology laboratory, three new gait laboratories
        and five new psychology laboratories
    •   Future investment includes £1.5m in state-of-the-art radiography equipment and a
        dedicated health robotics laboratory in NERIC.

 University-wide facilities:

 Salford’s MakerSpace was created through external investment from Morson Group, an
 engineering recruitment company, to provide a means of promoting interdisciplinarity. This digital
 design and fabrication space has been crucial to the development of various research projects,

                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 e.g. live measurement of radioactivity in small mammals and creative writing using inclusive 3D-
 printing practices. It also supports the development of research impact and public engagement.




                                                                                         Page 10
