Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: York St John University

 1. Context and mission

 Putting research at the forefront of our work
 York St John University has made impactful research a cornerstone of its purpose and
 contribution as a modern, ambitious higher education institution.
 Since the last Research Excellence Framework (REF2014), we have improved our infrastructure
 and developed our research culture with the aim of producing world-leading and internationally
 excellent research in greater volume and in more areas of the university. Our REF2021
 submission will demonstrate investment aimed at growing our research capability and evidence
 of how we have attracted, retained, and enabled academic talent. It will show how our
 leadership, structures and environment are increasingly directed towards establishing a vibrant,
 fair, and equitable research culture. It will also proudly highlight where our research is already
 influencing policy and professional practice and improving people’s lives nationally and
 internationally.
 Our aspirations and the growing maturity of our university mean that our research journey is still
 ongoing. However, the demonstrable quality of our research in key areas evidences our rapid
 development and upward trajectory. Our progress has been driven by a growing academy of
 researchers, nurtured from within our own institution and recruited from elsewhere, who have
 helped increase our research capability and enhanced our reputation. We have a clear social
 justice mission and a distinctive identity as a Civic University and a Yorkshire University. It is this
 mission, along with our aspirations and our progress, that has been the basis for our strategic
 decisions and investment over the last six years.
 Growing in confidence as a modern university
 York St John University has been educating people in the heart of York for 180 years. Founded
 as a teacher training college, its original mission was to increase access to education for families
 who may not have benefited from it in the past. We have retained social justice as our focus and
 it is the strongest common thread in research across our institution. Our commitment to social
 justice influences the type of research we conduct; the open and collaborative way we undertake
 our research and the expectation we place on ourselves to bring about positive social change
 via impactful research. These historical roots have also underpinned the university’s confidence
 in asserting its distinctive research identity and ability to develop a research culture that is
 socially engaged and enriches the communities we serve.
 Reflecting our history and status as a smaller higher education institution, we are members of
 the Cathedrals Group and GuildHE. We have almost 8,000 students (158 PGRs) and a primary
 focus on learning and teaching. Over time we have grown a diverse curriculum offer that
 includes a focus on allied health professions, as well as the humanities and creative arts. More
 recently we have added social sciences and biomedical science, and we have an expanding
 portfolio of other STEM subjects. This offer is delivered in five academic schools: School of the
 Arts, School of Education, Language, and Psychology, School of Humanities, School of Science,
 Technology, and Health, and York Business School. Historically, our research agenda has been
 shaped by our curriculum developments, but increasingly our research strengths inform our
 curriculum content and drive new areas of delivery, particularly at postgraduate level. Research
 underpins all our academic programmes, and we support all staff in their aspirations to
 contribute to the intellectual leadership of their disciplines through their own research.
 We were awarded university status in 2006 and research degree awarding powers (RDAP) in
 2015 (previously our research degrees were awarded by the University of Leeds). We are, in
 these regards, a very new university. We made submissions to the Research Assessment

                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Exercise 2001 (RAE2001), RAE2008 and REF2014. Achieving RDAP was a major milestone in
 our development and the most significant event to take place since our REF2014 submission.
 We have used RDAP as impetus to improve our research infrastructure at every level. It has
 given us ownership of our regulations and procedures so they can be better shaped to match
 our development journey, recruit and train a growing number of our own postgraduate research
 (PGR) students and attract a strong calibre of research active staff. Most importantly, RDAP
 have helped develop the institutional culture by establishing the production of impactful research
 as one of our priorities.


 2. Strategy

 Strategy 2020 and 2026:
 Our ambitions for research are aligned with a wider strategic framework that guides and co-
 ordinates institutional activities and decisions. The university’s strategic development has been
 guided by two overarching strategies – Strategy 2020 and Strategy 2026 – setting out the
 mission, vision, values, priorities, projects, and performance indicators that shape our work. The
 year 2026 marks a key milestone for York St John University of 20 years as a university. The
 strategy was built on an extended period of engagement with students, staff, and stakeholders,
 with the intention that it should be co-produced and owned by our academic community and
 partners. In this regard, it is an authentic and sustainable strategy. We have three priorities
 within the strategy: inspiring learning, impactful research and enabling our students to be clear
 about their careers. We are committed to keeping research at the forefront of our strategic
 agenda, and this has raised research expectations and aspirations across our academic
 community.
 Recognising research in everything we do:
 While Strategy 2026 provides our overarching direction, several new and enabling sub-
 strategies steer distinct but interconnected strands of work. Each of these sub-strategies
 contributes to the infrastructure and activity we deem necessary to enhance our contribution as
 a modern, progressive institution. They are also created to ensure we can respond fully to the
 agendas laid out in important national touchstones such as the UK Govt: Industrial Strategy, UK
 Govt: UK Research and Development Roadmap and forthcoming UK Govt: Comprehensive
 Spending Review (2020). Our sub-strategies include: People and Culture Strategy, Estates
 Strategy, Partnership Strategy, Digital Strategy, Internationalisation Strategy, Access and
 Participation Strategy and Environmental Strategy. As one of our three key priorities, the aim of
 producing impactful research runs throughout these strategies, shaping their development and
 success criteria. In this way, research is now integrated across our institutional activities and
 planning.
 Our research strategy was developed by the university following REF2014 (launched in 2017
 and reviewed and simplified in early 2019). The strategy emphasises interdisciplinary working,
 demonstrating greater research excellence through external recognition and wider dissemination
 of research as key goals. It also sets out our intentions to conduct more research that has
 impact on the community; to increase the quality of the research we produce; to increase the
 number of active researchers; to increase resources and income for research and to achieve
 wider dissemination of our expertise, outputs, and impact.
 We have made considerable progress towards our aims. Our research productivity has
 increased substantially, with the number of research outputs produced in this REF cycle versus
 the last almost doubling (387 or 77 per year for REF2014 vs 743 or 106 per year for REF2021;
 source: Web of Science/InCites); we have grown the number of institutions we collaborate with
 in the UK (62 vs 101) and abroad (63 vs 289) over this period (source: Web of Science/InCites);
 we have more than doubled grant income since REF2014 (£703k vs £1.5m; £141k per year vs

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 £213k per year; source: HESA) and a greater number of our staff are being recognised for the
 quality of their work and assuming leadership roles in their fields of expertise (e.g. editorships,
 reviewing grants, invited or keynote talks). One of the biggest markers of our progress is the size
 of our REF2021 submission, which is over twice the size of our REF2014 submission (68.2 FTE
 in 2014 vs 163.61 FTE in 2021). It includes four new UoAs (9 UoAs in 2014 vs 13 in 2021) and a
 large increase in the number of outputs submitted (242 vs 400). The size of our submission is
 indicative of our efforts to develop and extend research across the institution, as well as our
 inclusive research culture.
 We foster a research culture that reflects our core values and mission, and which is intellectually
 generous, diverse, collaborative, and creative. We are a signatory to the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers and mindful of other important work that focuses on
 research culture (e.g., Wellcome: Research culture: let's reimagine how we work together). We
 are committed to both The Concordat to Support Research Integrity and The Concordat on
 Open Research Data and have Open Access (2014) and Research Data Management (2016)
 policies that make institutional and staff expectations clear. Part of our response to Plan S and
 cOAlition S has been to adopt a new university-wide position that all research data should be
 made publicly available unless there are legal or ethical reasons not to do so. We have invested
 in institutional repositories for research outputs (Research at York St John, RaY, launched 2015)
 and for research data (Research at York St John Data Repository, RaYDaR, launched 2020), as
 well as training to support progress in this area. As a result of these changes, we have seen a
 large increase in the availability of and access to our research (RaY includes 2,894 outputs that
 have been downloaded 85,000 times) and an increase in percentage of open access
 publications (17% REF2014 to 41% REF2021; Source: Web of Science/InCites). Our provision
 extends well beyond current open access requirements for REF2021 in several ways: the types
 of outputs accepted by our institutional repository, our new repository for research data and our
 university-wide expectation of open and accessible data.
 Building on our strengths:
 Underpinning our research strategy was the aim to build on existing strengths, partnerships, and
 collaborative themes evident across our academic community.
 Since REF2014, we have encouraged our academics to collaborate around shared areas of
 interest and expertise and lead our research agenda. As a result, we have developed a number
 of new centres that are responsible for research, cultural and creative activities at YSJU. Our
 most longstanding centre is the Centre for Religion in Society (CRS; established in 2008).
 Thereafter, we have developed the International Centre for Community Music (ICCM;
 established 2016), York Centre for Writing (YCW; established 2017) and the Centre for
 Language and Social Justice Research (CLSJR; established 2019). All four centres are led by
 professorial appointments made after 2014, three internally and one externally, and all the
 centres feature as part of our suite of impact case studies.
 This year we launched our first research institute at the university (Institute for Social Justice,
 ISJ). Led by a newly appointed director (0.5 FTE at professorial level), the institute aims to
 attract and shape external collaboration around the theme of social justice. Internally, it has
 allowed us to draw together existing community and research projects to build capacity and
 chart new areas of impactful and interdisciplinary research, public engagement activity and ways
 of inspiring our communities. Some of our established initiatives within the ISJ include: arts-
 based projects focused on mental health in the community (‘Converge’, which has attracted
 external funding from Research England (£356k) for an independent evaluation of its outcomes)
 and providing creative and life skills for prisoners (Prison Partnership); work with the police and
 community organisations to address bullying and abuse (AllAboutRespect); outreach work on
 improving employment prospects for autistic adults leaving further and higher education (PRO
 Autism) and specialised training to help ex-armed forces personnel transition to civilian life

                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (Military Human). We have invested in staff research projects, supporting external bidding, PhD
 scholarships and post-doctoral researchers to establish the ISJ as a major part of our university.
 Through our partnership work, we are embedded within the City of York and region more widely
 in meaningful and authentic ways. One example is our community clinics, which were developed
 in response to local need. They are underpinned by our research expertise and provide high
 quality services to those underserved by existing provision. Our Counselling and Mental Health
 Centre draws together local stakeholders (e.g., City of York Council and Independent Domestic
 Abuse Services) to offer affordable counselling and mental health services to citizens of York
 and North Yorkshire. The clinic also co-founded a Research and Training Clinic Consortium
 (RTCC) of other universities to share expertise and co-ordinate research activity. Other similar
 clinics operate across the university (e.g., YBS Business Consultancy Clinic) and include
 national and regional partners (e.g., NSPCC, Macmillan Cancer Support, John Lewis, Park
 Leisure, Ainsty Ales and Visit York). This partnership working has helped us engage our
 community in developing research priorities and projects and provides sustainable impact
 pathways for our research.
 3. People

 Our growing academy
 As well as strategically positioning research at the centre of the university’s focus, we have: (a)
 invested significantly in the cultural conditions to enable stronger research practice to spread
 and embed across the institution; (b) recruited and developed a more academically diverse,
 research-confident and experienced academy; and (c) established a clearer academic career
 pathway, from early career entry into research, through to senior roles and responsibilities.
 Building on the expansion of our academic portfolio and increase in student numbers over
 several years, our academic staffing base has grown by 46.2% since 2014 (204.2 vs 298.6 FTE;
 source HESA). We have grown from 33.4% of staff submitted to REF2014 (68.2 of 204.2 FTE)
 to 54.8% of staff submitted to REF2021 (163.6 of 298.6 FTE). In creating a staffing base skilled
 in delivering impactful research, as well as exceptional learning and teaching, we have aimed to
 combine high-quality early career researchers (ECR) with experienced researchers who together
 deliver the full range of our courses. We have an extensive research training continued
 professional development (CPD) programme that is aligned with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework and supports both groups of staff in developing the skills required for a
 successful research career. Grant writing and research impact training is provided via this
 programme and is available to all staff. In the case of staff new to research, we provide fee
 remission for degrees to study at YJSU or other institutions (an average of 47 staff per year over
 the REF period). Through initiatives like these, we have maintained the percentage of staff with
 doctorates above 70% despite the large increase in overall staffing.
 Clear career pathways:
 We have strengthened other areas of our career pathway for academics to better recognise and
 reward research. For example, we have introduced an accelerated promotions route, allowing
 staff to apply for senior lectureship up to three years prior to reaching the top of grade (2016-
 2017). Promotion is awarded based upon exceptional performance, including in research. So far,
 53 academic staff have been promoted via this route. We also introduced the title of associate
 professor to acknowledge outstanding contributions to teaching and research (2013-2014). This
 title is intended to reward staff, raise aspirations, and provide a development route to full
 professorship. Since its introduction, four academic staff (4.0 FTE) have progressed from
 associate professor to full professor via this route. Currently, 9.4 FTE academics hold this title. In
 keeping with The Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), we do not prescribe or require
 the use of research-based metrics or thresholds as part of our promotion routes (though staff are


                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 free to use them if they wish). Rather, staff make a case based on the specific strengths of the
 work and its impact.
 Students and communities:
 Our PGR community continues to grow, and we have taken steps to encourage all our students
 to undertake research and become a more integral part of the institution. Initiatives include: our
 popular Student as Researchers Scheme, which offers students paid opportunities to collaborate
 with staff on novel research projects and is a Higher Education Achievement Report approved
 activity; the offer of 10% remission on all PGR degrees undertaken by YSJU alumni and fee
 scholarships for MSc/MA by Research programmes based on undergraduate performance at
 YSJU. We have also introduced a wide array of research degree programmes to suit different
 academic areas of the institution and increase diversity among PGR students. These
 programmes include an MA by Practice Research, to sit alongside our PhD by Practice, and a
 suite of Professional Doctorates in education, religious ministry, applied linguistics and
 counselling psychology. We have also worked increasingly with collaborative partners such as
 the NHS to provide PGR scholarships. Finally, we introduced Graduate Teaching Assistants
 (GTA), who contribute to teaching as university employees while completing their doctoral
 research. These initiatives have seen our PhD community double in size over the last six years
 (from 62 to 158 in 2019-2020), with a commensurate increase in PhD completions (REF2014 =
 18 vs REF2021 = 55; 3.6 per year vs 7.9 per year; source: HESA).
 In managing this growth, we have been careful to maintain a high-quality experience for our
 PGR students and to grow a vibrant and collegiate culture. As for our staff CPD programme, our
 PGR training is aligned with the Vitae Researcher Professional Development Framework and is
 a combination of centralised and school-based courses aimed at ensuring our PGR students
 have the knowledge, professional standards, and personal qualities for a research career. The
 programme includes input from academic staff, information learning services (liaison librarians,
 repository librarian and copyright and licensing officer) and career services and is supplemented
 by engagement with a range of external initiatives and organisations (e.g., GuildHE Summer
 School training and The Brilliant Club). Testament to the progress we are making in this area
 was the result of the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey in 2018, when we were ranked
 first in the UK for overall experience and assessment and second for PGR retention.


 Our inclusive, enabling culture:
 Underpinning this wide-ranging commitment to supporting and strengthening research is a
 positive and inclusive culture, with a commitment to equality. Given the nature of our institution,
 this commitment is authentic, deep-rooted, and reflected in the identity of the institution and our
 research.
 We have a university-wide approach (Equality, Diversity and Human Rights Policy) to achieve
 greater diversity and inclusion, and a range of enabling policies (e.g., academic leave, flexible
 working, special leave, career breaks) and initiatives (e.g., LGBT+, BAME and Disability
 staff networks) to support the career aspirations of all staff. With regards to our work on gender
 inequality, for example, our latest analysis of our gender pay gap data indicated that we are
 making progress on this issue (mean gender pay gap is now 9.3%, down from 11.5%, and
 median gender pay gap is now 16.2%, down from 17.7%). In other areas of equality and
 diversity, our institution is a sector leader. We are currently in the Top 100 Employers based on
 the LGBT Stonewall Workplace Equality Index (49th) and in the Top 20 Trans Employers
 (supported by our Trans Inclusive Framework). We are also a Disability Confident employer, a
 Mindful Employer, a University of Sanctuary, and we have a Gold Employer Recognition



                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Scheme Award from the Armed Forces. We recently committed to the Race Equality Charter
 and Athena SWAN Charter with the intention of achieving awards by 2022-2023.
 For REF2021, 163.6 FTE staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR) were identified;
 they form 54.8% of the academic workforce with 17.8% being ECRs (53.3 FTE). The profile of
 staff (based on FTE) with SRR (47.7% female; 6.1% declared disability; 7.4% BAME) is very
 similar to YSJU overall (49.6% female; 8.1% declared disability; 6.0% BAME). As such, we are
 confident that our code of practice is fair and equitable, and that our REF2021 staffing profile
 reflects our wider institution. However, increasing diversity and inclusion is an ongoing area of
 importance and focus for us as an institution. Our aims in this area include greater diversity at
 institutional level (e.g., at least 10% BAME student and staff population) and continual
 improvement in equality and diversity training among our staff. This is captured formally as part
 of our YSJU 2026 Strategy.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The increase in our research grant income noted above has been made possible by purposeful
 recruitment and the support of our research community, as well as successful partnership
 building. Funders in this REF cycle include the Arts and Humanities Research Council,
 Leverhulme Trust, Royal Academy of Engineering, Erasmus, The Health Foundation and many
 other charities and organisations. While we have made progress in this area, further increasing
 our success and competitiveness in attracting research grant income is a priority for the
 institution. Our target is for 2% of our total income to be from external research grants by 2026
 (equivalent to £995k per year). We consider this to be an ambitious and achievable target for an
 institution our size and one that will ensure sustainable research activity over the next period of
 our development.
 To support our progress to date and lay a foundation for achieving our aim, we have undertaken
 a programme of strategic expansion and investment in our resources, facilities, and estate. Our
 approach has combined several ‘flagship’ transformational projects intended to expand the
 university’s role and reach, with ongoing improvements across campus. The net result is that our
 institution is significantly more modern and research-enabled today than at the time of our 2014
 submission, with enhanced research support, IT infrastructure, learning and library facilities,
 laboratory and specialist space, and access to resources.
 We now have an established Research Office (RO) and Business Development and Knowledge
 Exchange Office (BDKEO). The RO has specific remits for governance and compliance,
 research grant support, PGR and staff research training, and research data and performance
 monitoring. The office also provides administrative support for the University Research
 Committee and its subcommittees (e.g., University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee).
 The RO has been central to supporting increased grant applications, enhancing the support and
 training available to staff, and it has ensured engagement with research concordats (The
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, The Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, Concordat on Open Research Data).
 The work of the RO is complemented by the BDKEO which was established to diversify non-
 teaching income streams and increase the range and scope of applied research, business
 development, and knowledge exchange at the university. The BDKEO engages with academic
 schools across the institution via knowledge exchange champions and school research leads,
 providing valuable support and advice. In practical terms, this has led to greater engagement
 with Local Enterprise Partnerships and securing our role in the Yorkshire and Humber Institute of
 Technology (a £10m project funded by the Department of Education). The BDKEO also led to
 the attainment of a Silver Watermark accreditation from the National Co-ordinating Centre for
 Public Engagement (NCCPE, 2019). The BDKEO will be central to our commitment to the
 Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research and new Knowledge Exchange Concordat.

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Our research infrastructure is also strengthening via developments that link our estate with
 strategic partnerships. In 2016, we opened a new 57-acre sports and recreation campus
 approximately one mile from our main York campus. We subsequently worked closely with the
 Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys Foundation NHS Trust to support the building of York’s new mental
 health hospital adjacent to that facility. The hospital opened in 2020, and through our partnership
 with the trust it is a key part of our strategy to make mental health in a social justice context
 central to our research agenda. To enable this to happen, we have recruited a new professor of
 counselling psychology to lead on this partnership, developed a new doctorate in counselling
 psychology and offered PhD scholarships in collaboration with the trust. This work has been
 mirrored by our partnership work with York District Hospital, with whom we established co-
 funded clinical research posts.
 Our estates development programme has introduced a suite of new technical spaces at the
 university, such as laboratories on our main campus and at our new Sports and Recreation
 Campus, including biomedical science, human performance, and psychology laboratories. As
 part of this investment, we have significantly increased the technical support capacity across the
 institution. The number of technicians has increased from 15.4 FTE in 2014, to 31.2 FTE, with
 greater critical mass and expertise across a much broader range of research areas. The
 university is also a signatory of The Technician Commitment, led by the Science Council,
 ensuring we invest in the training, equipment and support recognised as essential to enable our
 technicians to work effectively. In all, our research community members are now benefiting from
 a much greater level of expert technical support for their research than ever before.
 We recently expanded our reach by opening a London campus, located at the Barbican in a
 central business and cultural hub. The aim is to attract a wider pool of domestic and international
 postgraduate students and expand our research footprint by utilising both a northern and a
 London base. We have used QR to fund the first research (on parental leave) between the two
 sites and in collaboration with the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. At the same
 time, we have made complementary investment in our main campus and we are due to open a
 new Creative Centre in 2021, with a total budget of £15m. The centre reaffirms our commitment
 to the arts, including arts research and practice. Its flexible space will increase our capacity for
 arts-related research and public-engagement, teaching and community engagement and will
 strengthen collaboration with local and regional arts practitioners. It will ensure that research in
 the arts remains prominent and at the forefront of the institution.
 Overall, since 2014, our ambition to improve research infrastructure has been a key driver for
 investment of over £39m. The strategic projects and partnerships we are investing in, and the
 positioning of impactful research as a priority in our 2026 Strategy, will ensure that this
 investment continues during the next REF cycle. We will remain a strong example of a civic and
 regional university that delivers positive social change for and with its community.




                                                                                               Page 7
