Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution:         University of St Andrews

 1. Context and mission

 The University of St Andrews, a Scottish university with a global presence, is a modern
 institution with an ancient history, combining traditional and contemporary values. Drawn from
 over 140 countries, our diverse community of staff and students enables us to take a global
 perspective, as we aim to achieve excellence and leadership in research, teaching, and the
 pursuit of knowledge for cultural and societal greater good. The University’s academic staff
 comprise 672 on Research and Teaching contracts, 366 on Research-only contracts, and 190
 staff on Education-focussed contracts. In 2019-2020, we taught and trained 9,227 students
 comprising 7,444 undergraduates and 1,783 postgraduates. Since 2014-2015, the student
 population has grown by 12.4%.

 Academic subjects are organised across 19 schools within four faculties: Arts, Divinity, Science,
 and Medicine. We value curiosity-led research and scholarship, and our size and structure
 promote working across traditional disciplines. We make significant contributions to national and
 global priorities including the blue economy, advanced materials, health, the digital economy,
 sustainable development and (inter)governmental policy. Our scholarship is at the forefront of
 poetry and playwriting, global cinema, theology, social and cultures studies, and philosophy and
 ethics.

 In 2019-20 the University had a turnover of GBP261,700,000 with a current endowment fund of
 GBP95,000,000. Since 2014, the University has invested more than GBP100,000,000 in its
 estate, with an additional GBP300,000,000 committed through 2029, including GBP75,000,000
 in a new combined site for social sciences and GBP38,000,000 to grow enterprise activity
 portfolios at our Eden Campus (5 miles West of St Andrews).

 Our University Strategy 2018-2023 expresses our ambitions for teaching and research across
 four themes: World-leading, Diverse, Global, and Entrepreneurial; it explicitly places all the
 University’s work within the context of Social Responsibility. Our balance of teaching and
 research commitments, available support and development opportunities, creates an attractive
 environment conducive to world-changing research undertaken by world-leading researchers.

 University staff hold key leadership roles within the wider higher education and research
 communities, including the Vice-Convenor for Universities Scotland and the Chief Scientist
 (Health) for the Scottish Government. Staff members also sit on the boards of Universities UK
 and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee.
 Amongst our academics, we have the Executive Chair of the AHRC, members of the EPSRC
 Strategic Advisory Network, the former Chief Scientific Adviser for DEFRA, and members of both
 the Science Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) and the Scottish Government COVID-19
 Advisory Group.

 We contribute to the Scottish and UK university sectors through Universities Scotland and
 Universities UK, and have helped raise the international profile of research across Scottish HEIs
 through the SFC strategy of research pooling. We participate in 9 of the 11 Scottish research
 pools, co-founded the Scottish Arts and Humanities Alliance, based at the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh, and host the Universal Short Title Catalogue (USTC). Our long-standing Chemistry
 research partnership with the University of Edinburgh, EaStChem, underpins our joint
 submission to UOA8.




                                                                                            Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 Institutional research and impact strategy is set by the Office of the Principal and Vice-
 Chancellor, within the remit of the Vice Principal (Research and Innovation). The Vice Principal
 (Collections, Music and Digital Content) provides complementary oversight for the University
 library, and physical and digital collections, while the Assistant Vice-Principal (Provost) has
 responsibility for the postgraduate community. ED&I policy and implementation is overseen by
 the Assistant Vice-Principal (Diversity).

 The main University bodies influencing our research culture, policy and practice are:
    • University Court (overall governing body);
    • Senate (providing academic governance and oversight);
    • Research Excellence Board (support to schools and wider University);
    • Research, Impact and Innovation Committee (including School Directors of Research
       and Directors of Impact, support services and faculty EDI leads);
    • Research Staff Forum (representation for postdoctoral researchers);
    • Technician Engagement Group;
    • Postgraduate Research Committee.

 The research environment of academic schools is sustained and supported by 27 Professional
 Service units. For research, impact and innovation strategy, support has a coherent core within
 the remit of Research and Innovation Services (RIS), including: research integrity, ethics and
 governance; research information systems and policy; research impact; innovation, technology
 transfer and commercialisation; and open research.

 2.1 Achievement of strategic research and impact goals during the assessment period.

 During this REF period, our main strategic goals have been to:

 1. Invest in new and existing centres of excellence that cross traditional academic disciplines;
 2. Establish new facilities that enable ground-breaking research and impact of national and
    international significance;
 3. Extend an active impact culture across the University;
 4. Embed the values of ED&I throughout the institution.

 Interdisciplinarity at St Andrews seeks to enable challenge-led research and is distinguished by
 cross-faculty engagement. To realise our goals, we have invested in facilities and a new
 campus, appointed staff whose research can span traditional disciplines, and funded
 interdisciplinary PhD studentships.

 Our investments in world-class facilities include: the establishment of the state-of-the-art
 Richardson Research Library for our Special Collections texts (accumulated since the
 University’s foundation in the 15th century), the revitalisation of the Wardlaw Museum, the new
 GBP12,000,000 Laidlaw Music Centre, a GBP16,500,000 expansion of the Scottish Oceans
 Institute, and a GBP10,000,000 Centre for Designer Quantum Materials.

 A coherent support structure for research and impact now sustains an active impact culture
 across all faculties. A key component of our strategy is the creation of the Eden Campus, partly
 funded by GBP29,500,000 from the Tay Cities Deal, and our hub for innovation and
 sustainability, supporting a strategic commitment to become carbon net-zero by 2035.

 The University achieved the institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2018, and 18 of our 19
 schools hold Bronze or Silver awards. ‘Diverse St Andrews’ as a pillar of our University strategy
 ensures inclusivity is central to all policy and practice developments (see section 3.1).




                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.2 Strategic goals for research and impact over the next five years

 Our goals for research and impact over the next five years are integral to our Institutional
 Strategy. Whilst maintaining achievement in our core subjects, we will:

    1. Develop six interdisciplinary research priority areas in which we are unequivocally
       recognised as world-leading and through which we can influence a changing world (see
       2.5);
    2. Enhance the scale and quality of our international networks and research collaborations,
       with flexibility to respond to global trends and needs;
    3. Nurture diverse and emergent leadership in research and impact, spanning all levels of
       experience and background, including students, academic, research, and technical staff;
    4. Drive an institutional culture shift to increase our capacity for innovation and value creation,
       and strengthen our engagement with industry and business.

 2.3 Enabling and facilitating impact

 We support knowledge exchange and impact (KE&I) through a central Research Impact Team
 and Technology Transfer Centre, who administer funding streams, protect and support
 translation of intellectual property, and facilitate knowledge exchange. We are signatories of the
 KE Concordat.

 • Our internal KE&I fund has awarded over GBP653,000 for 165 impact projects; this extends
   and complements GBP1,800,000 allocated to 103 projects through EPSRC and STFC Impact
   Accelerator Accounts (IAAs).
 • Our sabbatical leave policy and promotion process now explicitly includes impact. Since 2016
   we have granted 317 research and impact leave requests.
 • The Global Challenges Forum has supported a portfolio of 72 Global Challenges Research
   Fund projects in 49 countries including three PhD scholarships per year, addressing all 17 UN
   Sustainable Development Goals.
 • The University is the main sponsor of StAnza, Scotland’s annual international poetry festival.
 • St Andrews Applied Research Ltd provides focused oversight and support for our
   entrepreneurial, spin-out and commercial activities, including innovation at the Eden Campus.
   The University has a large IP portfolio which generated revenues of GBP5,700,000 for the
   period 1 Aug 2014 – 31 July 2019.
 • Successful spin-outs with significant external backing include Xelect Ltd (genetic selection of
   high-yield fish broodstock), and Pneumagen which has recently attracted a GBP4,000,000
   investment for clinical development of novel COVID-19 treatments.
 • In the social sciences, St Andrews have led nine competitively awarded Scottish Universities
   Insight Institute projects, delivering impact in the public sector, business and the third sector.
 • The University annually awards the St Andrews Prize for the Environment to outstanding
   global environmental projects (USD150,000 annual prize fund).

 2.4 Creating an open research environment

 The Open Research Working Group sets the strategy for our Open Access (OA) policies and
 Research Data Management (RDM). The Open Research team in RIS provides technical
 support, user training (reaching 1500 researchers since 2016) and manages OA publishing
 funds (GBP200,000/year from UKRI and charities, and GBP30,000/year internal fund).

 St Andrews is a sector leader for OA, placed 5th in the 2020 Leiden World Ranking for proportion
 of OA publications (89.1% in 2015-18). 95% of all our publications in scope of REF2021 OA
 Policy have achieved compliance. Currently 74% of datasets supported by major funders are
 publicly available, including 660 in our institutional repository. We expect that all research data
 will over time be made publicly available wherever possible.



                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We co-organise Open Research Scotland, are signatories of DORA, and participate in the
 Forum for the Responsible Use of Research Metrics and several JISC and other OA and RDM
 programmes.

 2.5 Supporting interdisciplinary research

 Our University Strategy 2018-2023 identifies six priority areas for interdisciplinary research:
 Peace, Conflict and Security; Cultural Understanding; Evolution, Behaviour, and Environment;
 Materials for the Modern World; Health, Infectious Disease, and Wellbeing; and Sustainability.
 Additionally, our Environmental Sustainability Board provides a strategic drive for
 interdisciplinary challenge-led research.

 Strategic seed funding, cross-school appointments, and interdisciplinary research centres and
 institutes support a broad ecosystem of research at the interfaces of traditional disciplines. An
 expectation that new research centres should address multidisciplinary research has built
 exciting new initiatives such as the Centre for Energy Ethics and the Centre for Exoplanet
 Science (combining Astronomy, Earth Sciences and Philosophy). The Sir James Mackenzie
 Institute for Early Diagnosis (2019-) will develop new medical technologies, leveraging existing
 expertise in health informatics and biophotonics.

 The cross-faculty St Leonard’s Postgraduate College creates an interdisciplinary postgraduate
 community; initiatives include:
 • Introducing Interdisciplinary PhD scholarships (23 funded since 2017); a core objective being
   to forge new interdisciplinary collaborations, e.g. examining the relationship between dance
   and imitation, co-supervised in Biology and the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland.
 • Formation of partnerships with the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science and the
   Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities.

 2.6 Supporting a culture of research integrity

 Since 2014, we have revised and expanded our guidance and policies on good research
 practice, conflicts of interest and research misconduct. Broad dissemination, coherent web
 resources and training are building an integrity-aware culture across the institution. New staff
 and PGR induction includes guidance on research integrity.

 The Research Integrity Committee co-ordinates operational activity, with oversight from the
 Ethics and Research Integrity Assurance Group (including members of Court and Principal’s
 Office). The University Teaching and Research Ethics Committee is responsible for ethical
 review and approval of funders and research involving human participants, tissues and samples,
 overseeing the work of School Ethics Committees. The Animal Welfare and Ethics Committee is
 responsible for ensuring research involving animals is undertaken with the highest standards of
 animal welfare and legal compliance.

 2.7 Supporting research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Global St Andrews sets out plans for UK and international research partnerships, student
 experience, and academic reputation, supported by a dedicated Global Office. Our collaborative
 outlook is evidenced by 70% of our science publications in 2019 and 2020 being co-authored by
 two or more countries (Leiden rankings 2019: 2nd in UK and 21st in the world). Collaborative
 research, networks and partnerships are supported through strategic initiatives and investments
 at regional, national and international levels, including:

 • University investment of GBP17,857,588 since August 2013, across nine Scottish research
   pools: a unique Scottish model for building capacity, research excellence and international
   profile.
 • Our partnership with the China Scholarship Council (2015-) currently provides over 120 fully-
   funded PhD studentships and 10 visiting scholarships.

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 • St Andrews has been a member of Europaeum (2017-), an association of 17 leading
   European universities, promoting research collaboration in the Humanities and Social
   Sciences.
 • Strategic partnerships, such as those with key partners Bonn University and Emory
   University, are developing new research collaborations through seed funding and staff
   exchanges.
 • Our Global Fellowships Scheme provides prestigious awards to enable scholars from around
   the globe to spend a month collaborating at St Andrews (24 Fellowships awarded since
   2019).
 • Our new Global PhD scheme funds collaborative PhDs between St Andrews and strategic
   partners.

 2.8 Supporting research engagement with the wider community

 Our Public Engagement with Research (PER) team is co-funded by UKRI Strategic Support to
 Expedite Embedding Public Engagement with Research (SEE-PER), and provides training and
 support for researchers. We are signatories of the Concordat for Engaging the Public with
 Research. Highlights of engagement with the wider community include:

 • GBP15,000,000 invested since 2014 in venues used extensively for public engagement: the
   Wardlaw Museum, Laidlaw Music Centre, Byre Theatre, St Andrews Botanic Garden.
 • Our PER Team leads the major outreach initiative Cell-Block Science, engaging prison
   learners with our research (one of ten Falling Walls global winners in Science Engagement,
   2020 Berlin Science Week), now a nationwide programme.
 • Citizen Science projects, including in Social Anthropology (Woven Communities), History
   (Scotland's Coastal Archaeology and the Problem of Erosion), Psychology (Dementia),
   Biology (Bioblitz) and Geography & Sustainable Development (Coastal Rowing).
 • We established the Budongo Research Unit (BRU) at Edinburgh Zoo’s chimpanzee Budongo
   Trail enclosure, allowing approximately 800,000 visitors to engage with our active research
   projects annually.
 • The University’s MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive website has received 1.5 million
   pageviews every week since 2014.
 • The University’s podcast project Promoting Mental Health Through the Lessons of History,
   has received 35,000 listens on iTunes alone.

 3. People

 Our staff are our greatest asset. We aspire to foster an environment that enables all staff and
 students to engage with intellectual challenges while realising their own potential. For over a
 decade, we have been signatories of and have met all key principles of the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers. In 2020 we became signatories to the 2019
 Concordat. We hold the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award (2014-). Our
 most recent staff satisfaction survey (2017) indicates that over 90% of staff derive satisfaction
 from their work at the University.

 Within five years, our staff strategy aims to:
    • Enhance areas of research excellence and support the development of further
         interdisciplinary research;
    • Develop a pipeline of diverse leadership in priority areas;
    • Increase the underrepresented BAME staffing complement through recruitment
         initiatives;
    • Maintain our excellent staff to student ratio;
    • Incentivise an entrepreneurial culture through opportunities to reinvest additional income
         into staff appointments.



                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.1 Supporting equality, diversity and inclusion

 The ‘Diverse St Andrews’ pillar of our strategy underpins our research ambitions. Diverse St
 Andrews is led by the Principal and the Assistant Vice-Principal (Diversity), a leading researcher
 in equalities, supported by a Human Resources/ED&I Team. Our structures include a Central
 EDI Committee, a Race, Ethnicity, Religion & Belief Group, Student Representative Council
 Equal Opportunities group, and School ED&I Committees.

 Inclusivity is central to developing policy and practice, with particular focus on more diverse and
 balanced leadership. The Principal’s senior leadership team comprises 50% women and 50%
 men. We aim to develop a culture of emergent leadership, spanning a rich diversity of
 experience and background, including both students and staff. We have reduced our mean
 gender pay gap from 23.3% in 2017 to 20.7% in 2020. In 2017 we began publishing our annual
 gender pay gap report, electing from May 2020 to also disclose our ethnicity pay gap and staff
 and student EDI progress reports.

 In 2019 we became a University of Sanctuary, committing to ensure St Andrews is a welcoming,
 safe and supportive environment for staff and students seeking refuge in the UK. We offer
 sustainably funded, flexible Sanctuary Scholarships of GBP15,000 each.

 We were awarded an Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award in 2018; 18 of our 19 academic
 schools hold Bronze or Silver Awards. To date, over 2,780 staff have completed EDI online
 training, including modules on Recruitment & Selection, Unconscious Bias, Diversity in the
 Workplace. We have banned single-sex recruitment shortlists for academic posts, introduced a
 ‘core hours’ meetings policy, and opened an on-site children’s nursery (2017-) offering
 preferential rates to staff and students.

 We are a ‘Carer Positive Employer’, awarded ‘Exemplary’ status in 2020. The University has
 supported 84 applications to our Caring Fund since 2014, which offers up to GBP1,000 annually
 per colleague for caring responsibilities, enabling them to attend key events and conferences.
 An EDI Research Fund (2018-) has awarded GBP44,000 matched funding for small research
 projects.

 We share knowledge, good practice and build diverse leadership capacity through: Aurora
 Women’s Network (2014-); Early Career Women’s Network (2017-); Staff BAME Network (2018-
 ); Beyond Belief- discussing spirituality group (2018-); Staff Carers & Parents Network (2019-);
 Staff LGBTIQ+ Network (2016-); Women in Science St Andrews (2018-); Women in Computer
 Science society (2018-); Senior Women in St Andrews (2018-); Staff with Disabilities Network
 (2020-).

 We are signatories of the LGBT Charter (2013-); Stonewall Diversity Champion (2015-);
 membership of the Advance HE Race Equality Charter (2015-); Business in the Community
 Race at Work Charter (the first university signatory in the UK, 2019-).

 EDI has been central to all processes of our REF submission, in full compliance with our REF
 2021 Code of Practice. An Institutional REF Equality and Diversity (IRED) Review Group, led by
 the Assistant Vice-Principal (Diversity), has considered and made recommendations on REF
 decisions or processes that may have equality and diversity implications for staff. These include
 determining research independence, staff circumstances, appeals, overseeing our Institutional
 Equality Impact Assessment and EDI training, particularly for staff involved in REF decision
 making. IRED has ensured REF appeals processes are clear and independent of our Research
 Excellence Board. A total of 665.0 FTE staff have been submitted across 21 UoAs (figure 3.1).




                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




                                 Figure 3.1: Submitted staff by UoA

 3.2 Staff recruitment, development and progression

 (i) Staff recruitment

 Since 2014 we have recruited 876 new staff to research, and to research and teaching
 contracts, shown by age and gender in figure 3.2. Our recruitment processes are designed to
 secure the broadest possible pool of applicants and shortlisted candidates; for example, in May
 2020 we became the first Scottish HEI to advertise posts in the Black Female Professors Forum.
 Interview panels are trained in recruitment procedures and unconscious bias to ensure a
 standardised application experience. The Master (Deputy Principal) and Faculty Dean are
 involved in all permanent faculty appointments (with senior externals also included on
 professorial appointments); the percentage of female faculty appointments has steadily
 increased since 2015.




                         Figure 3.2: Age and gender profile of recruited staff

                                                                                          Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 (ii) Staff development

 Since 2011, the Organisational and Staff Development Services (OSDS) and Centre for
 Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED), have provided a comprehensive portfolio
 of professional support to staff and PGRs including:
 • Staff induction programmes for all new colleagues
 • Contract Researcher Skills for Research Staff informed by Vitae’s Researcher Development
    Framework.
 • The Passport to Research Futures focuses on career development and employability.
 • Public Engagement Portfolio training available for all staff and PGRs.

 We pride ourselves on our extensive mentoring programmes:
 • New colleagues are offered a school-based academic mentor.
 • Our Teaching, Research and Academic Mentoring Scheme, cofounded with the University
   of Dundee, has expanded to include Glasgow School of Art, Abertay University, the James
   Hutton Institute and Trinity College Dublin.
 • The Elizabeth Garrett Mentoring Programme is sponsored by the Principal and provides
   support for senior academic women, with over 60 successful mentoring partnerships to date.
 • The Coaching Service for Staff, co-founded in 2014 with the University of Aberdeen, has
   provided coaching to 122 staff across institutions.
 • Since 2014, we have supported 113 staff on Advance HE leadership development
   programmes including Aurora (female staff) and Diversifying Leadership (BAME staff).

 (iii) Staff progression

 All staff undergo annual reviews with their line manager. In 2016-17 our academic staff
 promotion process was revised to provide balanced recognition of teaching, impact, research,
 and service, with a new promotion pathway for fixed-term research staff. The criteria are
 published on the University website. The number of promotion applications, and percentage of
 successful applicants, have each increased since 2014; women applicants’ success rates
 exceeded men’s across all but one year since 2014 (figure 3.3.)




                                  Figure 3.3: Academic promotions

 Fixed-term research staff and technicians play a crucial part in our research culture. A bridge
 funding scheme between externally-funded contracts is available. We are signatories of the
 Technician Commitment Action Plan, which tracks the career progress of the technical
 workforce. Regular high-level dialogue with technician staff is maintained through our Technician
 Engagement Group, chaired by the Vice-Principal (Research and Innovation).

 Since 2014 the number of professors and senior academic management (P+ASM in the figures)
 has grown from 207 to 251 FPE. Figure 3.4 shows the current make-up of professors and senior
 staff by protected characteristic, with comparisons to the equivalent cohort in 2014-15 and to all


                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 staff submitted to REF 2021. Female staff in these senior posts have notably increased from
 17.9% to 24.7%.




                            Figure 3.4: Staff by protected characteristic


                                                                                          Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.3 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs)

 All PGR students are members of the St Leonard’s Postgraduate College, led by the Assistant
 Vice Principal (Provost). The College enhances the postgraduate experience by fostering a
 community through social and academic events, whilst providing training, and supporting
 networking and interdisciplinarity. In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, St Andrews
 ranks in the top quartile of the sector for overall satisfaction (2017). Our latest PGR completion
 rates are 98% (2018-19 cohort).

 Since 2014, we have introduced new PGR programmes including the Engineering Doctorate
 (EngD) in Computer Science and a Doctorate in Professional Practice (DProf). We have created
 23 interdisciplinary scholarships, introduced a funded postgraduate pathway for Widening
 Participation students, invested in diversity with fully-funded scholarships for students from the
 OECD DAC list, and are fostering strategic international collaborations via our Global PhD
 scholarships. In 2019, we introduced excellence-based Handsel Postgraduate Research
 Scholarships for international students. Since 2014, PGR funding (combining internal, research
 councils and other funders) averaged GBP13,000,000 per year. The University’s commitment to
 PGRs has led to a 20% increase in students starting doctoral studies since 2015.

 PGRs have access to the Professional Skills Curriculum (endorsed by The Institute of
 Leadership & Management.) Schools provide internal programmes of discipline-specific
 workshops delivered by academic staff, and support PGRs to attend external programmes,
 including pan-Scottish collaborative graduate schools. All starting PGRs complete Training in
 Good Academic Practice and undertake relevant training in line with the Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework. All PGRs have a comprehensive annual progress review within their
 school, including an opportunity to discuss supervisory arrangements with independent
 reviewers. PGR progress reviews are overseen by the PGR Pro Dean.

 3.4 Staff and student well-being

 The University supports work-life balance through a flexible working policy for all. We have
 strengthened our wellbeing commitment across the institution, as evidenced by our Bronze
 (2014), Silver (2016) and Gold Awards (2018, 2019) from the Scottish NHS ‘Healthy Working
 Lives Award’. In 2020, our ‘Exemplary’ Carer Positive Award cited our Coronavirus Wellbeing
 webpages as demonstrating transparent support as a progressive employer for carers.

 Since 2014 we have developed strategies for Mental Health and Suicide Prevention. We
 established a Mental Health Task Force to implement our Action Plan, a Mediation Service and
 have undertaken a Wellbeing Review. Our OSDS Wellbeing and Engagement Group, alongside
 the ‘Passport to Health and Wellbeing Excellence’ programme, regularly engages St Andrews
 staff and students with information, activities and services across the spectrum of wellbeing,
 including a mental health counselling service. Staff can access any of these services through
 dedicated Human Resources and Occupational Health advisors, whilst students have access to
 an extensive Advice and Support Centre. Postgraduate students with disabilities are offered a
 peer mentor to support their transition to the University; we actively support such students to
 apply for the Disability Students’ Allowances (2.7% of our PGR students were in receipt of DSA
 in 2018-19).

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1 Institutional strategies and supporting activities for generating research income.

 Research income generation takes place in a collegial environment where punitive targets are
 avoided and researchers are informed, encouraged and assisted to secure external funding. The
 University promotes and facilitates engagement with a diverse range of funders (including UKRI,
 charities, industry, government, international sources and by philanthropic support). We aim to
 grow the proportion of industrial funding within the Entrepreneurial pillar of our strategy.

                                                                                            Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Applications and awards data are shared in monthly institutional updates. A proportion of
 overheads are returned to school operational budgets for flexible spend. Matched funding for
 capital equipment, and to leverage major external awards, is approved by the Vice Principal
 (Research and Innovation), supplementing annual School budgets.

 Supporting activities include:
    • A Research Business Development and Contracts team proactively identifies and
       disseminates targeted funding opportunities to schools and directly to relevant
       researchers, and guides ECRs through the funding process;
    • Finance Advice and Support is structured into dedicated school teams, providing a
       coherent pre-application to post-award service;
    • The Passport to Research Futures training programme includes a research funding
       module;
    • Regular paid research and impact sabbaticals for academic staff create time to develop
       applications;
    • Our Development Unit raises philanthropic support, with research priorities including
       scholarships and major facilities.

 4.2 Infrastructure and facilities supporting research and enabling impact

 Professional Services units support all aspects of our research operations and culture (see
 Section 2), including funding, safety, ethics, training, OA and open data which support good
 research practice and reproducibility of research. Notable facilities and infrastructure include:

    •   The University Library belongs to the Research Libraries UK group of research-intensive
        libraries, with the Richardson Research Library providing workspace exclusively for staff
        and postgraduates and a special collections reading room. Significant research material
        includes manuscript and archival holdings; a major photography collection including
        historic photography; extensive rare book holdings reflecting the Library’s status as a
        copyright library in the 18th and early 19th centuries; and three recognised museum
        collections of nationally-significant material;

    •   We host the Universal Short Title Catalogue (USTC), a searchable catalogue of
        European books published until the end of the 16th century. Founded in 1997 at St
        Andrews, it now holds 4,000,000 early print items and is a major resource for literary
        scholars worldwide;

    •   World-class facilities for materials research, these include the GBP10,000,000 Centre for
        Designer Quantum Materials, housing Ultralow Vibration Laboratories for atomic-scale
        imaging of quantum materials; an advanced suite of Magnetic Resonance spectrometers;
        an Electron Microscope Facility and two Cleanrooms for optoelectronics and
        nanofabrication;

    •   The Scottish Oceans Institute houses a refurbished Marine Laboratory, and hosts the
        Sea Mammal Research Unit, and the executive office of the Marine Alliance for Science
        and Technology for Scotland (MASTS). This provides a unique facility within the UK for
        research on captive marine mammals and a state-of-the-art aquarium enabling
        reproduction of any oceanic conditions;

    •   Computational research across our science schools is supported through a
        GBP1,330,000 upgrade in our University High Performance Computing facility Kennedy,
        with 3520 cores, 18.7 Tb memory and 400 Tb of storage space;

    •   Since 2017, we have invested GBP1,750,000 in the University’s Wardlaw Museum for
        new exhibition and research studio spaces. Together with the Bell Pettigrew Museum


                                                                                              Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        and Museum Collections Centre, this provides researchers outstanding facilities to study
        collections material and actively engage wider audiences;

    •   The Laidlaw Music Centre is a new GBP12,000,000 state-of-the art music centre,
        offering practice, rehearsal, recording and performance spaces for impact events;

    •   The Biomedical Science Research Complex houses a suite of biophotonics laboratories,
        two high containment laboratories, mass spectrometry and proteomics facilities. One of
        its two main buildings suffered a devastating fire on 10 February 2019 displacing 100
        researchers. Currently housed in custom-built modular laboratories, they will return to the
        restored and upgraded facility in 2022;

    •   During the next REF period, the University will invest GBP75,000,000 to develop the
        former Madras College School site in central St Andrews to create a Social Sciences
        hub.

 4.3 Shared and external facilities

 Our Eden Campus opened in 2020 to enable new research and industrial links in sustainable
 energy and to provide a nucleus for increased innovation and entrepreneurship. To achieve
 these goals, the UK and Scottish Governments, Fife Council and the University are jointly
 investing over GBP29,500,000 within the Tay Cities Deal. The Eden Campus will host the
 Scottish Government Hydrogen Accelerator, the GENESIS Facility for industrial research and
 development in energy storage and conversion, and a mix of science- and technology-based
 industry and commercial activity. This ecosystem will include an Enterprise Centre (joint venture
 with Fife Council) supporting local business and an Entrepreneurship Centre targeting spin-outs
 from staff, students and the local community. Business management and direction of University
 spin-outs and commercial enterprise is facilitated through our wholly-owned subsidiary, St
 Andrews Applied Research Ltd.

 Other shared facilities that extend the reach of our research and impact include:
    • The Byre Theatre - a collaboration with Fife Council– allowing a programme of creative,
        literary and academic events, and provides a venue for conferences and summer
        schools;
    • The Living Links field station based at Edinburgh Zoo combines research of primate
        behaviour with public engagement;
    • Three robotic telescopes, located in Chile, South Africa and Australia within the Las
        Cumbres Observatory Global Telescope Network, gives the University Observatory a
        global footprint, and provide competitively-awarded observing time to external
        astronomers.

 4.4 Equality and diversity in research funding and access to scholarly or operational
 infrastructure.

 St Andrews is a welcoming, safe and supportive environment for scholars (Section 3). Our ‘Code
 of practice for the employment and management of research staff’, ensures compliance with
 employment law, and comprehensive equality, diversity and family friendly policies including
 flexible working, workplace adjustments, training and support for Access to Work funding
 applications for staff with disabilities.

 The Caring Fund provides support for researchers with caring responsibilities (Section 3.1). Our
 ‘Core Hours’ policy ensures activities supporting research, such as seminars, occur between
 10am-4pm. Beyond nursery provision, we routinely provide Sports Centre-led activities and
 mobile creches during school holidays and closures.



                                                                                            Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Internal funding and demand management panels for external initiatives, such as Fellowships,
 are gender-mixed and review awards for protected characteristics. We undertake high level
 post-award monitoring of external awards by gender, and Planning offers dedicated EDI
 statistical analyses for Schools.




                                                                                        Page 13
