Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  Institution: University of Bolton

  1. Context and mission

  Mission
  The University of Bolton is a Teaching Intensive, Research Informed (TIRI) university with a distinct
  emphasis upon professional and vocational education. The University proudly traces its history
  back to the foundation, in 1825, of the Bolton Mechanics’ Institute; one of the first to be established
  in the UK. To this day, the University retains its primary purpose of providing educational
  opportunities to the widest range of individuals and enabling them to achieve their full potential at all
  levels from Access to Doctorate. It welcomes people who wish to invest in their futures through
  accessing educational opportunities and thus enhance both their life skills and employment
  prospects. Intensive teaching through a portfolio of focused high quality undergraduate and
  postgraduate programmes, underpinned and informed by research, is central to the University’s
  abiding mission; as evidenced by the University’s ‘Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF)’ Silver
  award outcome and National Student Survey (NSS 2018, 2019, and 2020) results making it the top
  university for teaching quality in the north west. We are clear that much of the exceptional student
  experience is attributable to the close alignment of our research and teaching agendas. The
  University’s Apprenticeships and Access to Higher Education provision is graded by the Office for
  Standards in Education (Ofsted) as ‘good’ with emphasis on Management, Leadership, Teaching
  and Learning. The TIRI philosophy and the Platinum Critical Mass (PCM) course portfolio
  approach, developed as the core of its Strategic Plan (2015-20), have been a watershed
  development in the University of Bolton’s real transformation and its journey as a successful
  institution, as evidence for example by the University’s rise up league tables such as entering The
  Guardian Top 50.

  HESA Performance Indicators show that our student population continues to be one of the most
  socially inclusive of any higher education institution in the country and we consistently exceed our
  access and participation benchmark indicators in regard to those from low participation, low
  household income or socioeconomic backgrounds. In line with its widening participation philosophy,
  the University prides itself on providing higher education opportunities to a diverse range of
  students, many from challenging socio-economic backgrounds who may face multiple barriers to
  access, participation, attainment and employment, which have to be overcome to achieve success.
  Over 70% are commuter students, an attribute that is considered to increase the risk of a non-
  continuation. The University continues to work constructively with other universities, colleges, the
  third sector and employers, through the Greater Manchester Higher Partnership, to further
  encourage participation from under-represented groups. Around 70% of our students are the first in
  their family to attend university and the University has a higher proportion of students with a
  declared disability (14%) and from POLAR 5 than average.

  Size and Structure

  The University is divided into three faculties: the Faculty of Engineering, Arts and Creative
  Industries, the Faculty of Health & Wellbeing, and the Faculty of Professional Studies. Health and
  Wellbeing is made up of Nursing and Midwifery, Social Care, Social Work, Early Years, Community
  Development and Youth work, Clinical and biomedical, Dental Technology and Sport. The Faculty
  of Professional studies incorporates Education, Psychology, Business.




                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   2019/20                                               Full-time
                                               First
                     PGR         PGT          degree          Foundation           OUG         Total
   UK                 66         328           4776              463               162         5795

   Other EU            6          19            175                   0              6         206
   Non-EU             125         144           326                   0              1         596
   Total F/T          197         491          5277                  463            169        6597
                                                        Part-time
   UK                 80         703          323                    106            318        1530
   Other EU            6           5           1                      0              5          17
   Non-EU              6          13           1                      0              12         32
   Total P/T          92         721          325                    106            335        1579
   Totals             UK       Other EU      Non-EU
                     7325        223          628

  Includes all students counted as university numbers, including franchise

  In terms of the balance between research, teaching and enterprise activities, the institution is
  focused on teaching informed by research in an environment where learning is the primary focus.
  We have significant links with local industry with over 40 companies represented on our Industrial
  Advisory Boards.

  We seek to ensure a clear link between research and teaching by requiring all external research
  bids to identify which taught programmes might, in principle, benefit from the proposed research.
  For example, in which Masters programmes the results might be shared with students or how the
  research will influence course design. Our internal research funding schemes have three core
  criteria: how the research will enhance the curriculum for students (TIRI), the impact of REF
  performance including impact and value for money.

  Our institutional research focus is on high quality research which is likely to have material impact on
  industry, communities and the student community.

  We continue to support international excellence in our long-standing research teams in Engineering
  alongside specialist work in Psychology on mental health and wellbeing. There is a clear focus on
  a diverse but selective spread of research topics and teams, including textiles and nanomaterials in
  Engineering, mental health and counselling in Psychology, documentary photography Anarchy and
  the Aesthetic art, poetry, Nietzsche and political theatre in English Literature. In the Institute of
  Management diversity is to be found in relation to SMEs and the Digital Games Industry alongside
  Supply Chain, Logistics and Procurement. In Education research ranges from storytelling in the
  classroom to Further Education (FE) leadership. In Health there is a focus on the future on nurse
  education, on clinical values and on sports injury recovery.

  There has been a long-standing presence in engineering teaching and research. Alongside
  developments in Education and Psychology in the post-war period the institution developed its
  health provision followed by initiatives in Business and latterly Law, Creative industries and
  Computing. Distinctive areas of the curriculum, research and industry collaboration are to be found
  in and the rapid rise of computer Games Design this century followed by the National Centre for
  Motorsports Engineering which was established in 2015.

  The University’s Equal Opportunities Policy covers all aspects of protected characteristics and the
  University’s commitment to equal opportunities.
  https://www.bolton.ac.uk/assets/Equality-and-diversity/Equal-Opps-Policy-Aug-2014-1.pdf



                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  2. Strategy

  Strategy for research and enabling impact – Current Assessment Period

  The University approved a research strategy in 2015 which stated
  In relation to Research and Knowledge Exchange - we stated will:
      i.   Improve the quality of research and enterprise activities which support teaching
     ii.   Ensure research centres map research onto teaching
    iii.   Make all teaching informed by high quality, current and innovative research and professional
           practice
    iv.    Identify, deliver and evaluate innovative and effective ways of teaching
     v.    Engage with business, industry and the community in knowledge transfer through
           consultancies, knowledge transfer partnerships and applied research linked to teaching
                                                        [University of Bolton, Strategic Plan 2015-20 p9]

  In the period of the plan (which is now being reviewed as part of a broader academic strategy
  review taking place during 2020-21) all of these objectives have been achieved. The quality of
  research has been enhanced and links to industry strengthened with additional KTPs and extended
  Industrial Advisory Groups in each School. In terms of the mapping of research centres onto
  teaching, all of our research centres now have substantial contributions to, or leadership of, a
  portfolio of Masters and/or Doctoral programmes. This link to teaching ensures the sustainability of
  our research provision. In terms of support for teaching from R&KE we have aligned our research
  pump-priming schemes and external bidding strategy with the taught programmes such that all
  internal and external bidding activity has an element of assessment related to the impact on the
  curriculum and/or student experience. We have been able to ‘Identify, deliver and evaluate
  innovative and effective ways of teaching’ by establishing our Centre for Pedagogy and our
  research teams in Education. We have had a number of schemes designed to develop evidence-
  based approaches to research-informed teaching including our Learning Enhancement Fund, our
  ST:RIVE initiative (Student Transition: Research, Innovation, Values and Engagement) and the
  education projects funded under our Jenkinson (research pump-priming) scheme. In addition, the
  University centrally has commissioned research and funded PhDs internally in the areas of student
  mental health, student progression, student online engagement and student resilience.

  Research integrity

  The University is a signatory to the UUK Research Concordat and makes an annual report to the
  Board of Governors and which is published in line with the national protocol. This was most
  recently done at the Board of Governors meeting of 17 November 2020. The University has
  incorporated research integrity and ethics into its research training arrangements both for staff and
  research students.

  The Research and Graduate School work closely with staff in Schools to deliver a Master’s level
  module that prepares them for taking on the role of a doctoral supervisor. Research ethics
  generally, and specifically the University processes, are explored. Alongside this are a series of
  scheduled sessions throughout the year that form the Research Degree Student Development
  Programme where the University’s ethics processes are explained by experienced research
  supervisors; staff are also invited to attend these sessions. Research ethics documents are
  available at:
  https://www.bolton.ac.uk/join-us/researchprogrammes/research-policies-and-documents/research-
  ethics-framework/

  The University has not had any identified any instances of violations of research integrity during the
  current REF Assessment period.

  There is a formal University Research Ethics Committee, School-based ethics committees and
  periodic audits of School operation of ethics processes. These are audited centrally by the


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  Research & Graduate School on a rolling 3-year schedule and action plans developed where
  necessary.

  Open Research

  The University is committed to open research support and publication, the principal internal vehicle
  for which is the University of Bolton Institutional Repository at http://ubir.bolton.ac.uk/ . This ensures
  compliance with the open access requirements of REF.

  This is reviewed and audited on an annual basis. This was done most recently on 30 November
  2020.

  Structures to support interdisciplinary research

  Fortunately, the small to medium size of the institution means that each School covers a relatively
  wide range of traditional disciplines which means that our core organisational structure already
  facilities interdisciplinary work in research as it does in teaching. For example, we do not have a
  separate Schools of Psychology and Education but a school of Education and Psychology, which
  for example facilitates pedagogical research. Similarly, we have one Engineering School covering
  all the major branches of engineering and thereby supporting collaborative research in textiles
  technology, fire and materials chemistry.

  The University has a number of interdisciplinary research centres
      Centre for Pedagogy
      Centre for Worktown Studies
      Institute of Materials Research & Innovation

  Strategy for the next five-year period

  The University is currently reviewing its institutional strategy in the context of;
  (i)     the expiry of the current strategy,
  (ii)    (ii) the development of the University of Bolton Group and associated acquisitions of Bolton
          College, Alliance Learning, and the Anderton Centre
  (iii)   (iii) the changing demands of the 21st century workplace and workforce, and
  (iv)    (iv) the medium to longer term impact of Brexit, Covid and international recruitment. As part
          of that review, the institution is updating its academic strategy with a particular focus on
          expansion in the areas of health, social care and medicine. The University’s commitment to
          research is non-negotiable and remains as core element of our Teaching Intensive
          Research Informed model.
  We anticipate that while the core elements would not change they would be applied to a wider
  range of subjects.
  In that context five key principles will inform our review of our research and knowledge exchange
  strategies for 2021-26
  1. The institution will continue to be focussed on a Teaching Intensive, Research Informed
     model.
  2. We will seek to expand and strengthen our research capacity in the disciplines where we are
     investing to expand our portfolio
         a. eg in health and social care nursing, occupational therapy, physiology, social work,
             dentistry and medicine.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
         b. eg specialist areas where we have national centres of excellence (eg Special Effects
            and creative technologies)
  3. We will seek to maintain an emphasis on community engagement through cross disciplinary
     collaboration, e.g. mental health with art and cultural engagement, community engagement in
     happiness and wellbeing, creative and performing arts and inclusion.
  4. We will seek to enhance our support for inter-institutional collaboration
         a. For example by our continued membership of the Knowledge Centre for Materials
            Chemistry in partnership with Manchester, Southampton and Liverpool universities
         b. Expanded research collaboration with our international partners already pump-primed
            through our GCRF work eg in Malawi and Botswana
  5. We will seek to support for areas with promising potential such as
         a. Accountancy and Entrepreneurship
         b. Creative writing
         c. Psychotherapy and counselling research

  Whatever the precise details of our strategy and the priorities within that strategy, we will commit to
  five key mechanisms for delivering on that strategy:
     1. A commitment to diversity and inclusion to ensure that the profile of our research
        community aligns with that of our student community and that they both reflect the range of
        skills, perspectives and talents required to deliver high impact critiques and solutions to the
        complex range of theoretical and practical challenges that face our societies.
     2. A commitment to working with external stakeholders in industry, the public sector,
        communities and with international partners not as an additional dimension to our research
        and knowledge exchange activity but as a central component.
     3. Continued support for Early Career Researchers and research careers to ensure that the
        University can ‘grow its own’ and develop rounded academics aligned with the institution’s
        TIRI model.
     4. Investment in the digital infrastructure to ensure widespread access to core applications
        and to facilitate national and international collaboration.
     5. Regular, selective, competitive funded calls in new ideas and developments for projects,
        internships and collaborations.
  3. People

  Staffing strategy

  The University’s staffing strategy is to attract and retain the best staff we can. We also seek to
  ensure capability and capacity matches our portfolio. Beyond that we ensure that areas of growth
  secure investment ahead of pressure on teaching capacity. We also work closely with local and
  regional health trusts to secure a wide array of visiting professors and fellows.

  The University requires all academic staff to have a Doctorate level qualification such as a PhD (or
  to register for one upon appointment).

  In addition, strategic professorial appointments have been made to specialist chairs in Education
  and in Health.

  Support and training of research students

  The University of Bolton is committed to the highest level of researcher development at a personal
  and professional level to allow home and international researchers to reach their full potential.
  Working closely with our Academic School, the Research & Graduate School offers a
  comprehensive Research Degree Student Development Programme that includes: An induction
  programme to life at the university and as a research degree student; weekly webinars and
  workshops to enhance a student’s research skills delivered by research staff from in our academic

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  School and from across the university; Research methods webinars and workshops; online
  resources available through our virtual learning environment for all webinars, workshops and
  training programmes; Progress monitoring and development review; An annual research degree
  student conference hosted by the Postgraduate Students Society; and, an Annual Research
  Summer School. All our research degree students are encouraged to engage with the Researcher
  webinars and workshops. Also, to participate in the research degree student conference for an
  opportunity to present their research project and to receive feedback from their peers and staff
  across the University. We work closely with external speakers such as the publishers (most recently
  speakers were from Elsevier and IEEE Xplore) to ensure Researchers at all levels have the
  opportunity to fully understand the publication process and to seek support to publish their work.

  As a member of VITAE, we encourage all researchers to make use of the VITAE Researcher
  Development Planner and the VITAE Researcher Development Framework so that our research
  degree students benefit from the VITAE researcher development insight and expertise.

  We also strive to apply the terms of the Concordat (commonly known as the Researcher
  Development Concordat) to support the career development of researchers, especially Early
  Career Researchers (ECRs). The University follows the Concordat principles of environment and
  culture, employment and professional development, and career development. As an example of
  this, the Research and Graduate School work closely with Staff and ECRs in academic Schools
  across the University to deliver a Master’s level module that prepares ECRs for taking on the role of
  a Doctoral Supervisor. Entitled, ‘Research Degree Supervision’ this twenty-credit module provides
  the opportunity for ECRs to gain invaluable experience in providing feedback to doctoral students at
  all levels, including the initial Postgraduate Skills Record, the R1 and R2 assessments and
  preparing for the Viva. Feedback from those ECRs that have taken this module states that they are
  better prepared to take on the role of a Supervisor having completed this module, that is of great
  benefit to their career progression and research goals.

  Equality and diversity

  Leadership of the internally funded research project have been diverse with 34 being led by female
  academics and 10% led by colleagues from ethnic minorities. The Panel includes representatives
  from across the institution, includes a nominee of the SU President and chaired by an Assistant
  Vice Chancellor.

  4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Including: the institutional-level resources and facilities available to support research, including
  mechanisms for supporting the reproducibility of research as appropriate to the research focus of
  the HEI, and to facilitate its impact.

  Institutional-level resources and facilities available to support research

  The University has four internal annual research funding schemes:
   The Jenkinson Awards – designed to pump-prime innovative research projects often focusing
      on pilot studies
   The Ryley Awards – designed to support undergraduate and postgraduate research internships
      with an established research team or individual researcher
   The Ainsworth Awards - full PhD scholarships at national rates for exceptional students to work
      with established research teams on specified topics.
   The ST:RIVE awards – designed to foster action research projects across the University of
      Bolton Group led by a University researcher focusing on improving the student experience
      and/or related support systems.
  
  In total these research initiatives have funded over 80 innovative projects often interdisciplinary in
  character and pump-priming collaboration with external partners.


                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  The main requirement for laboratory facilities is in engineering and the provision has been
  developed during the REF period with enhancements in particular in the fire chemistry area. More
  recently the opening of the National Centre for Motorsport Engineering has enhanced facilities both
  on campus and trackside in this area.

  Mechanisms for supporting the reproducibility of research

  Reproducibility of research is supported through the UBIR (University of Bolton Institutional
  Repository) where data from all research is mandated to be archived in line with the requirements
  of the Research Councils

  Impact

  The Jenkinson Awards have as one of their three criteria the contribution to the institution’s REF
  performance. While this is an element of all 6 annual rounds of this scheme, in 2018 and 2019
  there was a particular focus on impact of research. The institution has provided additional funds for
  research teams to support the delivery of stakeholder events, publicity and networking over the
  period. Additionally, the University’s Industrial Advisory Boards provide a ready and accessible
  community of industrialist, entrepreneurs, service leaders and public sector representatives which
  facilitate research engagement, awareness and impact. For example, in Psychology a number of
  research projects have been carried out in partnership with Mhist a mental health charity which
  operates across the Greater Manchester city region.




                                                                                             Page 7
