Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 1   Context and mission

                   At Royal Holloway, students and staff join a close community
                          of inspiring people with a truly global outlook.
                          The Royal Holloway Strategic Plan 2013-2020


 Our mission, stated in The Royal Holloway Strategic Plan 2013-2020, reflects our vibrant research
 culture, our supportive campus, our international outlook, and our shared values. Today’s
 university is rooted in the ethos of our two founding colleges, Bedford College (1849) and Royal
 Holloway College (1886), which pioneered higher education for women and merged in 1985 to
 form Royal Holloway, University of London. Bedford and Royal Holloway Colleges share a history
 of challenging social and cultural norms, and this heritage continues to inspire our commitment to
 equality, academic excellence, and social justice.
 Royal Holloway is a Top 20 university (Times and Sunday Times 2020), with 10,500 students and
 an academic staff of 766 (711.58 FTE, July 2020). We are a research-intensive institution that
 delivers high quality research-informed teaching (NSS 25th = for overall satisfaction in 2020), and
 placed in Group X for KEF, having high research performance in the arts, humanities, social
 sciences, and sciences. Our main campus in Surrey supports our community, and its proximity to
 London facilitates national and international research collaborations. Situated in the M25/ M3/ M4
 corridors we have prioritised relationships with regional industries since 2014, including our Local
 Enterprise Partnership, Enterprise M3. Our premises in Bloomsbury and Senate House,
 University of London, provide access to the capital’s research facilities, and the University of
 London’s School of Advanced Study. We are members of London Higher, an umbrella body
 representing over 50 HEIs in London, chaired by our Principal.
 Royal Holloway’s research environment has undergone a period of strategic change since 2014.
 In addition to supporting high-quality disciplinary research, we introduced an ambitious
 programme of challenge-led research that revitalised our approach to enabling impact. In this
 assessment period, we have increased our portfolio of interdisciplinary research and
 strengthened our research collaborations with industry, NGOs and the third sector, and with the
 health, cultural and heritage sectors. To support this approach, in 2019 College’s Academic Board
 took the decision to disband three faculties (Science; Arts and Social Science; Management,
 Economics and Law) and create a six-school structure: Business and Management; Engineering,
 Physical and Mathematical Sciences; Humanities; Law and Social Sciences; Life Sciences and
 the Environment; Performing and Digital Arts. The Schools structure is designed for agility and
 sustainability, and to amplify academic voices in research leadership and strategic decision-
 making. In this assessment period we have expanded into new fields; in Science we introduced
 Electronic Engineering, enlarged Computer Science, and strengthened Neuroscience (within
 Psychology). In the Social Sciences, we introduced Law and grew our Business and Management
 School. In the Arts and Humanities, we expanded Philosophy and led significant new
 collaborations with the creative industries. Our REF2021 submission has new entries to Units of



                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Assessment in Allied Health, Engineering, Philosophy, and Social Policy & Social Work (including
 Law).
 Royal Holloway’s research responds to today’s inter-connected world, and our research strategy
 and working methods are motivated by challenging inequalities, articulated in today’s terms as,
 for example, decolonising research in different geographic regions; supporting industrial growth;
 addressing the global challenges of food security, water and climate change; protecting citizens
 and businesses online; extending cultural and political participation; using digital technologies to
 develop the creative industries, and improving health and wellbeing. A well-supported academic
 community is central to excellent research, and we have created new opportunities for
 professional development and research leadership underpinned by our equitable principles.

 2   Strategy

 Royal Holloway’s research and impact strategy was overhauled during the period 2013-2020. The
 Royal Holloway Strategic Plan 2013-2020 defined our core principles as Creativity, Excellence,
 Collaboration, Fairness and Freedom, and set the following objectives:
 People:
     •   Create a sector-leading approach to support early career and established researchers;
     •   Support growth in postgraduate research students;
     •   Nurture a culture of inclusion and diversity.

 Partnership and Impact:
     •   Build strategic research links and become a partner of choice, driving the research
         agenda;
     •   Engage with, influence and enhance local, regional, national and international social,
         economic and political agenda;
     •   Encourage and develop a culture of social responsibility focused on the local and regional
         community.

 Infrastructure and investment
     •   Prioritise investment in areas of strength;
     •   Ensure policies and processes support research needs;
     •   Develop and maintain good quality research facilities.

 Delivering our strategic objectives required step-change in our research environment and a three-
 phase delivery plan.

 Phase One: Strategic Investment and Growth 2014-2017

 The first phase (2014-17) saw a period of investment in facilities, research infrastructure and
 academic staff growth from 653 to 716. This targeted investment in the expertise and facilities
 that are needed to deliver our strategic priorities - to advance knowledge, tackle regional, national,
 and global priorities, and deliver sustainable impact. New facilities provided the infrastructure for
 research, including a major new library and an interdisciplinary building that connects electronic
 engineering with digital creative economies. We grew our doctoral partnerships, and Royal

                                                                                                 Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Holloway leads three consortia across a range of disciplines, funded by AHRC, Leverhulme and
 EPSRC.
 All departments refreshed their research strategies, with new policies for research centres,
 institutes, and informal research groups. Research Centres and Institutes define areas of
 excellence, nurturing investigator-led research and curiosity-driven collaborations. Our Centres
 and Institutes were awarded funding with prestigious external partners including Kew
 (Geohumanities; Plant Molecular Sciences), The British Film Institute (History of Television
 Culture and Production), Museum of the Home (Centre for Material Cultures), and National
 Physical Laboratory (Quantum Technologies). Our proximity to Runnymede and contribution to
 Magna Carta 800-year celebrations led to Royal Holloway’s Citizens: 800 project, launched in
 2017 with £500k from the Heritage Lottery Fund to work with Parliament and museums across
 the south of England.

 Phase Two: Integrated Academic Strategy 2017-2019

 The second phase introduced the Integrated Academic Strategy, formally adopted in 2017. With
 strategic leadership provided by the Deputy Principal (Academic) and two newly appointed Vice
 Principals in Regional Development, and Research Impact & Interdisciplinarity, the Integrated
 Academic strategy fostered a holistic approach to research-informed teaching, impact and
 knowledge exchange, career development, and research excellence. It aimed to develop a well-
 connected interdisciplinary research community and agile responses to new research
 opportunities.




                                                                                           Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 Royal Holloway’s strategic focus on regional development and interdisciplinary research enabled
 us to take full advantage of The Industrial Strategy published in 2017. An audit for the industry
 consortium Innovation South noted regional capacity in the digital sphere and this informed our
 strategic focus on cyber security, quantum technologies, and digital creativity. In 2018 Royal
 Holloway was awarded £6.9m to lead the AHRC Creative Cluster project, StoryFutures, a
 research and development programme led by Media Arts, with researchers in Drama, Business
 and Management, Electronic Engineering, Information Security, and Psychology and partners
 including Heathrow, the National Gallery and Discovery. In the first two years of operation, (2018-
 20) StoryFutures reached over 500 businesses, and attracted £1.2m investment from LEP
 Enterprise M3 in 2020. Royal Holloway was also awarded £2.8m to co-deliver StoryFutures
 Academy: The National Centre for Immersive Storytelling with the National Film and Television
 School, focusing on cutting-edge training to support the UK’s screen industries. Our work with
 industry was strengthened by an award of £2.7m to the Physics department for a world-leading
 Electron Beam Lithography system under the EPSRC Quantum Technology Capital Scheme.

                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Royal Holloway invested £3m in a 315 m2 Class 5 cleanroom dedicated to nano fabrication of
 superconducting quantum electronics, known as SuperFab, used by major industries including
 NPL and Oxford Quantum circuits.

 Our Global Challenge Research Strategy was commended by Research England as one of their
 top ten. Building on our equality mission, we established Global Challenge Clusters in 1) Human
 Rights, 2) Sustainable Societies, 3) Sustainable Development and 4) Disability, Wellbeing and
 Sustainable Inclusion with convenors from Geography, Law, Management and Classics who
 curate activity across a range of disciplines. Royal Holloway’s researchers work closely with
 partners in 34 DAC countries to tackle issues connected to world poverty, increasing research
 income for GCRF projects from £115k in 2016-17 to over £4m in 2018-20. Our award-winning
 global research continues to fight social injustice by co-production of knowledge with local and
 indigenous communities, including exposing the effects of climate change and modern slavery in
 Cambodia, the placement of refugees, the economics of water shortage in Africa, and post-conflict
 reconstruction in the Middle East.
 Our commitment to staff development led to strategic use of QR funds for start-up interdisciplinary
 research networks. These networks seed-funded collaborations across disciplines, supported
 external partnerships and trained 64 academics to lead interdisciplinary teams. This led to
 successful funding applications, including an AHRC interdisciplinary network led by an ECR in
 History to investigate data science in museums, and research into intergenerational vulnerability
 to exploitation in cyber security, a collaboration between Psychology, Computer Science and Law.
 We continue to support interdisciplinary research via Research Institutes and Centres, including
 the world-leading Holocaust Institute, a new Gender Institute established in 2019 and a Centre
 for Refugees, all extending our equality agenda.
 The Research & Innovation Department was restructured following the appointment of a new
 Director in 2018, and resources were directed towards delivery of the College’s Integrated
 Academic Strategy. Organised into teams around Research Support and Development,
 Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise, Intellectual Property & Research Contracts, and REF
 Operations, the unit supports research income generation, collaborative research and industry-
 focused research partnerships. Between 1 August 2016 and 31 July 2020, Royal Holloway’s
 academics successfully achieved 425 research awards from 140 funders.

 Our Integrated Academic Strategy highlighted research with a purpose that impacts on a wide
 range of beneficiaries. For example, prisons have implemented Royal Holloway’s research on
 sport; research on poverty-aware practices has improved child protection services; research on
 information leakages in the financial sector changed regulatory policies; museums and galleries
 mounted exhibitions inspired by our research; and the health sector introduced treatments for
 chronic conditions and degenerative diseases developed by Psychology and Biological Sciences.
 Businesses in the private sector benefit from research on Corporate Social Responsibility and
 barriers to elite professions, and major internet vendors including Apple, Google, Microsoft and
 Mozilla use our research on internet security.




                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Phase Three: 2020-2024 Future Directions

 Royal Holloway’s Strategy 2020-2024 builds on the Integrated Academic Strategy. Throughout
 2019 Royal Holloway’s community came together to debate our future. This process was
 accelerated in March 2020 in response to the global pandemic, when Schools’ Directors of
 Research and Knowledge Exchange worked together to develop a College Research Strategy
 designed to build a resilient and sustainable research environment. Informed by principles of
 equality and inclusion, our strategy 2020-24 has tripartite structure:
 1. Four catalyst research and knowledge exchange hubs to strengthen challenge-led
    research in areas where Royal Holloway is a recognised leader with significant external
    funding. Research impact will be expanded via strong external partnerships in areas where
    we have the infrastructure and capacity to grow. Catalysts are:
       • Digital Futures in the Creative and Cultural industries. Building on the success of
         StoryFutures, this catalyst aims to transform the creative industries for the post-Covid era
         through use of immersive and digital technologies and other innovative approaches to
         democratising cultural participation.
       • Living Sustainably: By extending our Global Challenge Clusters, this catalyst addresses
         the challenges of living sustainably in an era characterised by climate change, threats to
         biodiversity, food and energy security, infectious disease, inequalities in education, work
         and participation, political polarisation and resource consumption.
       • Advanced Quantum Science and Technologies: This catalyst will strengthen existing
         research on superconductivity, quantum technology, quantum materials and post-
         quantum cryptography. Our research will shape the second quantum revolution in which
         devices based on quantum rules are set to revolutionize information processing and
         sensing capabilities.
       • Transformative Digital Technologies, Security and Society. This catalyst builds on
         Royal Holloway’s interdisciplinary strengths in cyber security. With a focus on AI/robotics
         and information/cyber security, it aims to understand the role of digital technology in daily
         life, on the economy, and workplace.

  2. Research Centres and Institutes nurture partnership-led research by providing an
     environment for academics to work together and shape new intellectual agendas. Reviewed
     2020-2021, they enable cutting-edge research and build strategic partnerships with other
     HEIs, industries, and the third sector. Their organisation within Schools supports rising talent,
     enabling established and emerging research leaders to respond to new opportunities.
  3. Researcher-led research and impact is the bedrock of our research activity, supported by
     departments and Schools. Our discipline-led research allows for blue-skies and innovative
     research to produce excellent outputs in multiple forms and sustainable research impact.


 Each stage in our strategic plan was based on evaluating our strengths, learning from experience,
 and defining a clear programme of strategic investment to ensure sustainability. We are now
 ready to face the opportunities and uncertainties of the next period, having transformed our
 research culture and placing Schools at the centre of decision-making.


                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3          People


 The Royal Holloway Strategic Plan 2013-2020 aimed to develop a ‘sector-leading approach to
 support early career and established researchers’ and to ‘promote and facilitate equality and
 diversity’. Four key strategic approaches facilitate this:
       i.     building an inclusive academic community;
      ii.     appointing and nurturing early career researchers;
     iii.     defining research expectations, research leadership and protected time for research;
     iv.      supporting researchers with refreshed policies and processes.

 In July 2020 88% of academic staff were active researchers, with an additional 12% on teaching/
 practice contracts. 96.5 % of researchers have permanent contracts (10.5% part-time), and 3.2%
 have fixed-term contracts. A large proportion are professors (240, 38%), with 95 promoted during
 the assessment period. We also appointed 144 lecturers, 38 senior lecturers, 10 readers and 30
 professors. 100% of staff on Teaching and Research contracts (538) are submitted to REF2021,
 reflecting our commitment to equality and inclusivity.

 i.         Building an inclusive academic community

 At the beginning of the assessment period, data showed that our equality principles were not fully
 reflected in our staffing. To address this issue, we introduced a suite of initiatives in 2016,
 including overhauling our promotion and recruitment processes. Unconscious bias training
 became mandatory for interview panellists, and an equitable and consistent system of scoring
 applications for shortlisting was introduced. This led to equal proportions of men and women being
 offered academic roles.
 The gender balance at lecturer, senior lecturer/reader and post-doctoral researcher is even, but
 in 2013 there was a significant gap at professorial level. To address this, A ‘Women’s
 Encouragement’ project was established in 2014, which won the Times Higher Education
 Leadership and Development award in 2016. This led to a higher than sector average women
 professoriate and an increase of women professors by 84% since 2014. We hold an institutional
 bronze Athena Swan Award (reaccredited April 2017), and three silver and two bronze
 departmental awards in our science departments. An open call for cluster leaders for our global
 challenge work led to the appointment of three women and one man, and the steering group
 includes 40% ECRs. 39% of people submitted to REF2021 are women, 61% men; we aim for
 greater equality in future.
  Staff profile of women                   2013-14                       2019-20
                                    Number % of academy             Number      %
  Professors                          46          24%                 73       31%
  Readers                             21          34%                 21       32%
  SL                                  45          35%                 63       52%
  Lecturer                            42          44%                 83       39%
  Total                              152          32%                206       39%




                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 The proportion of black and global majority (BGM, also known as BAME) professors was 6.6% in
 2013.This doubled by 2020, increasing to 8.9%, and 50% of our Heads of School, appointed in
 2019, identify as BGM/BAME. We were one of the first 8 institutions to receive the Race Equality
 Charter Mark in 2015 (reaccredited 2019), but we know we can do more to combat racial injustice
 in the academy. Our Athena Swan toolkit has been used across College to deepen understanding
 of inequalities and, in 2018, we launched the MANDALA programme to provide career
 development and support for promotion for BGM academics.
  Staff Profile of Black & Global Majority        2013-14              2019-20
                                              Number       %      Number       %
  Professors                                     12       6%        24        10%
  Readers                                         6      15%         8        12%
  SL                                             17      12%        35        21%
  Lecturer                                       26      13%        35        23%
  Total                                          64      13 %       102       16%

 New networks for people identifying as LGBTQ+, black and global majority researchers, people
 with disabilities, and women, helped address inequalities and erode barriers to success. In 2019
 we ranked 200th on the Stonewall Index out of 503 public sector organisations, an improvement
 from 2014 when we were 349/369. We are members of the Disability Confident Employer scheme
 (Level 2, 2017, renewed 2020-23) and our recruitment practices ensure that all disabled
 applicants who meet core criteria for posts are interviewed. Our Employee Assistance
 Programme, available to all staff at Royal Holloway, provides disability-related advice, and the
 Estates Department ensures that the campus is adjusted to meet staff needs.
 Our Equality and Diversity Scheme 2018-2021 articulates our ambition to create a community of
 researchers equally enabled to succeed. We hold the HR Excellence in Research (2020) and are
 signatories to DORA.

 ii.   Appointing and nurturing Early Career Researchers

 In July 2020, our research community included 97 early career researchers, including 17
 fellowships. All ECRs benefit from structured programmes to develop their careers, including a
 probationary period, usually three years. For ECRs on teaching and research contracts, teaching
 hours are reduced, and all are assigned mentors who help set research goals, oversee workload
 and offer support. Probationary training for both mentors and ECRs is given by the Deputy
 Principal (Academic), and Heads of School meet ECRs regularly to discuss progress.
 The ‘Advance’ Programme (previously ‘On Track’) is a key part of our development for ECRs and
 represents our commitment to the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers. It offers
 bespoke courses, online learning and workshops for ECRs and probationers (reaching 149 staff
 in the period). The programme addresses a broad range of research skills, including collaborative
 research and mandatory sessions on research integrity and ethics.
 This framework of mentoring, monitoring and development ensures that ECRs are given support
 throughout this critical stage in their careers. Our 2019 CROS survey showed that 90% of early
 career respondents felt encouraged to participate in career development programmes within and
 beyond probation. Since 2019, we have prioritised research leadership, providing programmes

                                                                                            Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 for early and mid-career academics to build skills in leading research projects with academics and
 external partners.

 iii. Research expectations, research leadership and protected time for research

 A culture of supportive leadership is key to sustaining our disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 research environment. Each School has a Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange who
 serves on the College Research Committee and leads School research strategies. The
 development and management of researchers sit at departmental level, ensuring that our strong
 disciplinary research thrives. Each researcher has a three- to five-year plan that addresses
 research development, publication, impact and external engagement, and an annual meeting with
 departmental research leads supports this process.
 Our strong collegial environment sets clear expectations for researchers. Guidelines for Research
 Expectations, agreed by Academic Board in 2015, encourage our researchers to aim high in their
 research outputs, impact and grant applications, and to contribute to the research culture with
 integrity. Protected research time (through sabbatical and workload arrangements) allows staff to
 spend a high proportion of their time on research and research support (47% in 2013-14; 48% in
 2016-17; 42% in 2019-20 – TRAC data), and formal monitoring is offered through departmental
 peer review and appraisal (70% uptake 2014, 79% in 2019).

 Our sabbatical policy has been reviewed during this assessment period. It offers one term of
 sabbatical after 9 terms of service (3 years). From 2015, sabbaticals for Arts and Humanities
 offered longer periods to work on monographs, with two terms after 12 terms of service (4 years).
 Maternity sabbaticals were introduced for bench scientists in 2015 and rolled out across all
 disciplines from 2018.

 iv. Supporting researchers

 This period has seen the introduction of family-friendly policies and refreshed policies around
 recruitment, probation, promotion, annual review, development and sabbaticals. These have
 been crucial in creating a caring environment that enables colleagues to fulfil their potential.
 Our promotion pathways were reviewed in 2017, introducing three routes for promotion: i)
 research and teaching; ii) teaching and scholarship; iii) professional practice. All CVs are
 considered by a departmental review panel before applications pass to School and College
 processes. Research metrics are not used in the review process; promotions are considered
 anonymously and assessed against a criteria matrix under four headings: Research/ Scholarship;
 Teaching; External Engagement; and Leadership and Enhancement. We run an annual reward
 scheme whereby incremental advancements are awarded for exceptional performance.
 The College recognises that research careers can be emotionally challenging. To support
 wellbeing, we signed the Time to Change Employer pledge in 2019 to tackle stigma attached to
 mental health, and developed a free Employee Assistance Programme as well as walking
 challenges, carers events, Mindfulness Mondays, yoga and complementary therapy sessions.
 Staff wellbeing was a major priority during the global pandemic in 2020, with additional resources
 to support health and wellbeing available online.




                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 v.   Research Students

 Postgraduate students are an important part of our community, and in this assessment period our
 PhD numbers have grown from 440.5 to 523, an increase of 18.6%. We spend 3% of our annual
 turnover on PhD studentships, and hold collaborative funding arrangements with a range of
 partners, including the Leverhulme Magna Carta Doctoral Centre for Freedom and Rights of the
 Individual in the Digital Age (2014 – 2019, £1,050,000) which supported 31 PhD studentships (15
 funded by Leverhulme and 16 by RHUL), and the National Physical Laboratory. Our international
 scholarships are bolstered by arrangements with the Pakistan Higher Education Commission,
 providing 10 PhD studentships since 2015. We lead two UKRI DTPs, the AHRC-funded technē,
 led on behalf of eight other institutions with approximately 60 studentships per year, and the
 EPSRC Information Security Centre for Doctoral Training (79 students in the assessment period).
 We are partners in the following: BBSRC LiDO and The London NERC DTP (both led by UCL);
 BBSRC DTP (Imperial); ESRC DTP SeNSS (University of Essex); NERC Oil & Gas CDT and the
 GeoNetZero CDT (both Heriot Watt University). We are members of the South-East network for
 excellence in Physics (SEPnet) and the NERC ARIES consortium managed by the University of
 East Anglia.
 A Code of Practice governs PhD supervision. All students are interviewed and placed in a
 supervisory team with at least two supervisors. The frequency of meetings is monitored, and a
 training needs analysis is undertaken each year. Annual reviews are attended by a third person,
 with upgrades from MPhil undertaken within 20 months of full-time study or the equivalent.
 Students appreciate the quality of supervision, which scored 87% in PRES 2020.
 A revitalised Doctoral School was created in 2019 to bring this research community together. Led
 by the Deputy Principal (Academic), it provides training, administrative support and social activity
 for PGR students. Core training aims to equip all students to achieve high intellectual standards
 and a portfolio of complementary skills and capabilities. We have increased opportunities for
 research outside the academy with external partners. Focused skills-training addressing
 disciplinary research and collaborations is offered by departments, Schools and DTPs. The
 School Directors of Post Graduate Research serve as important members of the Doctoral School
 and the Research Degree Programme Committee, which is also attended by student
 representatives and the Student Union’s Vice President (Education). Induction events, termly
 social gatherings and an annual research symposium are regular features of the research
 community.
 4    Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Royal Holloway’s strategic priorities have driven a changed approach towards income-generation,
 infrastructure and facilities for research. All areas of the College have benefitted from
 improvements in three areas: first, new buildings and refurbished research facilities on both our
 main campus in Egham and our central London home in Bloomsbury; second, a Research &
 Innovation Department that supports grant-capture, research impact and research management;
 third, an overhauled digital infrastructure. These investments bring new opportunities for research
 impact and knowledge exchange as industry partnerships are increasingly embedded in research
 at an early stage, enabled by access to specialist facilities designed for mutual benefit.


                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Facilities: The Emily Wilding Davison Building was opened in 2018, designed by Associated
 Architects at a cost of £59m. It includes a state-of-the-art library, increased space for archival
 research and designated facilities for postgraduate research students. A new exhibition space
 encourages public engagement in research, and it is curated to reflect our commitment to social
 justice and cutting-edge interdisciplinary research. Exhibitions since 2018 include a digital forest
 arising from collaborations between artists and psychologists; a display of Royal Holloway’s
 suffrage archive; the history of computing, and a photographic exhibition of contemporary Cuba.
 The library provides 1,350 bespoke PGR study spaces, and a refurbished reading room in our
 historic Founders’ Building opened in 2019 provides an additional 100 spaces for staff and PGRs
 to meet and study. Scholarly infrastructure includes investment of £2.5m per annum in library
 provision and digital resources including reference databases, e-journals, digitised newspapers,
 Box of Broadcasts and Kanopy services, the largest distributors of educational video and
 television material. All researchers have unlimited access to inter-library loans, and are members
 of Senate House Library, which offers specialist books, journals, and digital resources. In 2015,
 Royal Holloway joined Research Libraries UK, a strategic move to strengthen our special
 collections. Royal Holloway’s libraries are overseen by designated information consultants who
 ensure that research needs are met in each department. Our central London spaces in Bedford
 Square were refurbished for £3.5m in 2016 with support from our Bedford College alumni and are
 well-used as a high-quality meeting place for policy-focused events and research with external
 partners. The increased capacity in Senate House also facilitates our academics’ connections
 with research communities in central London.

 Investment in specialist research facilities

 We prioritised investment in areas of growth for a sustainable future. The former Bedford Library
 has been refurbished as a high-tech centre for Mathematics, Information Security and Computer
 Science, representing a £5.9m investment. A new digital innovation laboratory is now housed in
 the School of Business and Management, who have worked closely with Ricoh, a global
 technology organisation, to create the £30k facility and this supports their partnership with
 Heathrow. New glasshouses for plant and seed technology (£1m) provide state-of-the-art control
 of plant growth for Biological Sciences, and the refurbishment of the seed science laboratory
 brings benefits to the seed industry and responds to global challenges. The mass spectrometry
 suite was upgraded at a cost of £1m for metabolomics and proteomics, and a nano-indentation
 device (£115k) supports biomaterial research. Royal Holloway’s researchers in the creative and
 performing arts benefit from The Caryl Churchill Theatre (£3.5m) and The Boilerhouse Auditorium
 (opened in 2014) serves practice-based research. In addition, Academic Capital Equipment
 Funding was as follows:
  2013-14      2014-15       2015-16     2016-17      2017-18        2018-19       2019-20
  £945,247     £1,273,207 £784,984 £457,050           £1,595,249     £2,035,750 £1,167,207



 Operational Support: Our Research & Innovation Department offers support for income
 generation across Royal Holloway’s research community. During this period, key policies and
 processes were updated, including Ethics, Governance & Research Integrity, Intellectual Property
 & research commercialisation, and a new Concordat to Support Research Integrity. We invested


                                                                                             Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 in a research funding and intelligence database, a new dashboard for research grants that
 provides data related to equality measures and a suite of on-line toolkits for researchers. A
 specialist research support and development team was appointed in 2019, along with a Global
 Strategy Manager and Head of Business Development. Our focus on larger grants has seen
 success, for example we were awarded £2.4m EPSRC grant for the Physics Quantum clean
 room, EU Consolidator grants to research neuropsychology (£1.7m) and underground
 geographies (1.95m Euros), and a £900,000 GCRF grant to develop food security. An EPSRC
 award of £2.2m for a Zeiss ORION Helium ion microscope/Neon Focussed ion beam tool
 completed a suite of infrastructure requirements to establish the UK as a key player in the race
 for a superconducting quantum computer.
 Digital Infrastructure: Our IT infrastructure required investment to support our strategic priorities
 on digital technologies and outward-facing research. £1m investment in our website included
 updating the staff intranet to provide information for academics on research opportunities. Driven
 by £525,450 Research Data Management project, the College has implemented four services:
 DMP Online; Dropbox for Business; Figshare for Institutions; Almetrics, and updated Pure.
 Research Data Management is supported by designated roles in the Library, IT Services, and
 Research & Innovation, and an advocacy programme embeds it into research processes.
 Our strategic focus on interdisciplinary research for digital futures is served by the new Beatrice
 Shilling Building, opened in 2018, representing £18m investment from College and £5m from
 HEFCE. This high-quality, technology-led space is home to the Catalyst Digital Futures in the
 Creative and Cultural industries, providing state-of the arts facilities in immersive technologies
 and audio laboratories for industry partners to experience how our research might be integrated
 into their businesses. The newly established Electronic Engineering department is also housed
 here, where it has a laboratory to research quantum communications using photonics, with
 specialist equipment donated by Leonardo (£500,000).
 Our commitment to open research, reproducibility, and research impact was strengthened by
 appointments in professional services. A senior appointment in 2015 to monitor our Open Access
 and Research Data Management policies and provide institutional guidance was followed by two
 new posts in the library and dedicated funds for open access publication. Our researchers actively
 support open research and reproducibility as part of an equitable vision to increase access to
 excellent research. Good practice is shared in Schools; in History, for example, members of
 executive committees of learned societies have engaged in wider consultation on how to progress
 towards a full Open Access environment in Humanities, and Psychology is a member of the UK
 Reproducibility Network, which offers training and disseminates best practice in Science. Two
 impact managers were appointed in 2017 in the Research & Innovation Department, reflecting
 our commitment to research that benefits society. Their work was targeted on generating
 measurable impact in policy, business, and third sectors, and in culture, education and heritage.
 Our strategies, infrastructure, and programme of investment are designed to deliver our vision of
 a world-leading environment for research and impact, enabling researchers across College to
 reach their potential, and together build a sustainable future based on our shared values.




                                                                                              Page 12
