Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 1. Context and mission


Research at the University of Sheffield is distinctive and innovative. We drive intellectual advances
and address global challenges. We undertake excellent research that makes a genuine difference:
locally, nationally, internationally.

Highlight achievements include:

   •   High-quality research environment: £1.1bn research grant income (55% increase since
       REF2014). £720m infrastructure investment since REF2014, including £310m on research
       equipment and facilities.

   •   Impact: sector-leading support for developing research into real-world impact with
       successes across all sectors.

           o   A 40-fold increase in IP revenue to £57.5m, 5th highest in the UK.

           o   Expansion of our unique translational Advanced Manufacturing Group, a UK
               exemplar of university-led economic development. The Advanced- and Nuclear-
               Advanced Manufacturing Research Centres have developed long-term collaborative
               relationships with over 160 companies, including many of the UK’s leading
               manufacturers, and host two of seven High Value Manufacturing Catapult hubs
               (£90m).

   •   A pipeline of future talent: 391 externally funded research fellowships from all major
       research funders, including Research Councils, Wellcome NIHR, Trust, Royal Society, the
       Academies, and the EU, with a total value >£103m. A successful culture of PGR
       recruitment and training with 4,739 doctoral awards (44% women), including 20
       competitively awarded CDTs and DTPs.

   •   Improving diversity: a supportive research environment where diversity is valued, as
       evidenced by being the only university in the Sunday Times ‘Top 100 best not-for-profit
       organisations to work for’ three years running; a Stonewall Top 100 Employer for seven
       years running; and holding an Athena SWAN silver institutional award.

   •   15% growth in our research community to 2,961 (1,584 Category A and 1,377 research
       staff).

Strategic leadership comes from our University Executive Board, which includes Vice-Presidents
both for research and for innovation.

We value and nurture research leadership in our organisation and support individuals to secure
prestigious leadership awards across career stages. Examples include Professor Neil Hunter’s
ERC Synergy Grant; research professorships including 6 RAEng Research Chairs (all with
industrial partners); 10 UKRI Future Leader Fellowships. We value and reward leadership in the
sector through the academic citizenship component of our Academic Career Pathway (Section 2).




                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 2. Strategy


Research and research leadership are at the heart of our Vision. Our objective is to enable and
actively promote a culture of research excellence across our University community, delivering
internationally recognised outputs, supported by sector-leading research income and facilities.

Institutional strategy is developed through Research Strategy Group, comprising Vice-President
Research (VP-R) and Faculty Directors of R&I. The University R&I Committee provides oversight
and quality assurance. Our strategy supports research activity at different scales to enable
excellent research and effective translation:

   1) Individual support (see Section 3).

   2) Units are empowered to develop strategies reflecting their disciplinary research strengths.

   3) Institutional support focuses on interdisciplinary research to tackle broad societal
      challenges.

We foster researcher-led interdisciplinary centres. Our Insigneo Institute for in-silico Medicine is
an exemplar; it is Europe’s largest institute dedicated to biological modelling, imaging and
informatics in healthcare. 150 staff from 28 departments have been awarded £54m, leading to
improved diagnostic tools for better clinical decision-making.

Sometimes real scale and ambition require ‘top down’ direction. Our 2014 programme of
institutional investment funded three pilot projects: £8.8m for 16 new academic posts, 5
fellowships, 36 PGR scholarships and £5.45m for new facilities. ‘The Florey Institute’, ‘Imagine’
and ‘P3’ bridged the gap between research and translation in antimicrobial resistance, super
resolution imaging and plant science.

In 2018, we evolved this strategy, launching four ambitious Flagship Institutes: Energy;
Neuroscience; Sustainable Food; and Healthy Lifespan. Selected through open competition on
the basis of outstanding academic strength, diversity, scale, leadership, societal relevance and
partnership opportunities, we invested £10m into professorial and senior research fellowships and
£3.7m for 40 PGR scholarships. Early achievements include:

   •   Energy has a bold vision to increase access to affordable, secure and sustainable energy
       globally through identifying reliable low-carbon solutions to energy challenges. In 2019, it
       secured £21m from BEIS and ERDF for a Translational Energy Research Centre to
       investigate industrial decarbonisation.

   •   Sustainable Food takes a systems approach to change the way we think about food from
       farm to fork. Collaborating across five faculties, it has secured a £7.5m multi-partner, multi-
       disciplinary UKRI award from the Strategic Priorities Fund, indicating national leadership in
       the field.




                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Research networks and partnerships

Individual researchers are enabled to develop
meaningful relationships with national and international
partners through visiting positions, secondments, study
leave, conference attendance/hosting, joint scholarships
and funding for exploratory trips, e.g. Professor Maisha
Wester came to our School of English through a
Fulbright scholarship, going on to be awarded a British
Academy Global Professorship.

81% of our outputs in this period had external co-
authors, 45% had international co-authors.

Units support academic collaboration and external
partnerships through externally funded grant
opportunities. For example, Engineering is a key player
in several EPSRC manufacturing hubs, including leadership for the £28m Future Electrical
Machines Manufacturing focused on addressing key challenges for UK industry.

Institutionally we fund participation in the Worldwide Universities Network, and, nationally, the N8
(northern research-intensive universities) and the White Rose (Yorkshire), alongside strategic
partnerships with the Sheffield City Region, industry, government departments, the NHS and
cultural organisations.

   •   HEFCE and institutional investment of £16m in the N8 Agri-Food programme has delivered
       180 collaborative projects and £40m research income.

   •   Our joint Clinical Research Office with Sheffield Teaching Hospitals enables collaborations
       with over 70 honorary clinical staff translating research findings into meaningful patient
       benefit.

   •   Our strategic partnership with Siemens co-locates their staff in University research facilities
       to bridge the gap between discovery, product development and process improvement,
       producing major improvements for wind turbine generators.

Impact, knowledge exchange and innovation strategy

Our objective is to use our transformative research to address the most pressing societal
challenges. Our strategy is to provide financial support and relevant expertise to build external
partnerships and deliver impact.

We have been well funded to do this, including the maximum Higher Education Innovation Funding
(HEIF) allocation (£21.8m), and £7m of UKRI Impact Acceleration Accounts.

The majority of this funding supports individuals, and external recognition includes five ESRC
Celebrating Impact awards, the 2018 NERC Economic Impact Award, and three AHRC New
Generation Thinkers.

Support includes:

   •   Professional development, including our pioneering Impact Internship Programme to give
       ECRs/PGRs experience of developing and demonstrating impact early in their careers.


                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   •   Specific recognition of impact in our Academic Career Pathway (see Section 2). Impact can
       be the basis for reward, promotion, workload allocation and study leave.

   •   Funding to grow and strengthen a high-quality impact pipeline. During the period, £13.6m
       has funded 270 proof-of-concept projects, collaborative R&D and secondments. 20% of our
       impact cases have benefited from this seed funding.

   •   Generous consultancy arrangements: 267 staff have worked with >280 partners.
       Consultancy for Public Health England enabled a technology-supported approach that
       helped 600,000 of the UK’s least physically active citizens do more exercise.

Our tech transfer team provides expert support to commercialise IP generated by units. Our
ethos is to use our IP primarily for the benefit of society, rather than to generate income.

We have invested in expanding the team and created an IP
Development and Commercialisation fund. Since 2016,
£3m has been invested in proof-of-concept and seed-
funding for companies to ensure spinouts are significantly
more attractive to private investment. External consultants
provide market analysis and advise on positioning
spinouts. We have funded 64 projects across every faculty,
created 16 companies and leveraged external investment
of £5m. IP revenue has grown 40-fold to £57.5m; 5th
highest in the UK.

Rinri Therapeutics is an exemplar of our approach: £21k
proof-of-concept funding in 2017 enabled the spinout to
raise £1.2m seed investment in 2019.

A £5m Connecting Capabilities Fund grant from Research England funded our regional
collaboration with Manchester and Leeds to create Northern Gritstone, an investment company
targeting an initial fund of £150m with a further £250-£500m by year four, which will invest in a
range of companies based on University IP.

As an institution, we have focused on research-led economic growth and cultural vibrancy.

We have created the UK’s first research-led Advanced Manufacturing Innovation District. This
demonstrates the economic and social development possible when industrially relevant research
drives collaboration with industry, local and central government, leading to massive inward
investment. Companies and their supply chain have relocated to this brownfield site, creating jobs
in an economically disadvantaged area. Factory 2050 (opened 2016) translates excellent research
jointly with our academic base in data, robotics and VR-prototyping to address real-world
challenges in manufacturing and enable industry to de-risk technologies. It is a magnet for further
investment: in 2018 Boeing opened its first new-build factory for 30 years, creating 87 highly skilled
jobs; McLaren followed in 2019 with its first production facility.

We have extended this successful model to other regions: AMRC Cymru, a £20m state-of-the-art
R&D facility in the Deeside Enterprise Zone, described by Welsh government ministers as a ‘game
changer’, opened in 2019. It provided the fabrication location for the Government’s Ventilator
Challenge in 2020. Other sites include AMRC North West (Preston, 2019, digital manufacturing
and battery assembly) and Nuclear AMRC Midlands (Derby, 2019).




                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Our research influences the city region to support its development as a cultural destination. Our
Director of City and Culture, Professor Vanessa Toulmin, co-creates research projects that add
to the region's vibrancy, from festivals and exhibitions to green space and regeneration initiatives.
A £350k AHRC award to investigate the impact of COVID-19 on Sheffield’s cultural ecology will
directly influence regional economic recovery plans and create best practice for other cities.

Our role as ‘anchor institution’ commits us to enabling local citizens to engage with research and
cultural festivals are a directed way to do this. During the period half a million visitors to our
festivals have brought £1.2m into the creative economy.

   •   Our award-winning Festival of the Mind, co-created with Sheffield’s creative and digital
       community, brings research to life in exciting and innovative ways.

   •   Off the Shelf is the third largest and most accessible literary festival in the UK with an
       audience of 80,000.

Progress towards an open research environment

We created our first repository 15 years ago and
encourage a research culture that is open for the benefit
of society. Exemplary systems include a publication
repository shared with Leeds and York, a data
repository using the Figshare platform, and a mediated
deposit service, reducing the burden on researchers
while ensuring compliance with copyright and other
stipulations.

We have built on this foundation with effective
leadership, policy, training, and advocacy. Institutional
policy requires ‘green’ OA and 82% of our outputs
since 2015 are open access placing us 32nd globally
in the 2020 Leiden Ranking. 35,500 outputs were
deposited during this REF period, with the annual rate
more than doubling. There have been 4.2m downloads of these papers.

We have invested £250k in the White Rose University Press, co-created with Leeds and York in
2016. An innovative digital OA publisher, it can support small and experimental publications and
formats, such as data journals, with licences that enable researchers to reuse our work. An OA
monograph of the Madeleine Blaess diaries (2018) has >4,300 downloads (the average academic
print-run is 400) while the license has enabled widely used resources for KS3-5 teaching.

We recognise there is more to do nationally; we support the move to full, immediate OA (Plan S).
Our staff are engaging with the debate through editorial positions and roles in learned societies
and supporting sector leadership via the UUK/JISC Collections Strategy group.

Our open data repository hosts some of the most discussed datasets worldwide (Rae, Stafford)
and supports the sharing of software, protocols, and reports, encouraging open research
throughout the research lifecycle.

Our VP-R chairs an Open Research Advisory Group providing strategic oversight. We are a
founder member of the UK Reproducibility Network and have invested in academic leadership. Our
Research Practice Lead has developed an institutional statement on open research, coordinates


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
translation of policy into good practice, and encourages grassroots participation and best-practice
sharing.

Our researchers are national and international advocates and leaders. Professor Stephen Pinfield
is external advisor to UUK and JISC. Professor James Wilsdon chaired the group that produced
The Metric Tide report and leads international debate through the £3.2m Research on Research
Institute co-founded with Wellcome Trust, Digital Science and Leiden University.

Professional development and support include tailored advice on data management plans ensuring
projects have strategies to maximise data sharing. PGRs receive training to embed open research
early in their careers; data management plans and OA thesis deposits (>4,500 since 2014) are
mandatory.

Major digitised resources are openly accessible, often with innovative digital routes into data
collections. Our open-source software benefits the economy, such as the GATE text engineering
platform used by Oracle, BBC, and the Press Association.

Research integrity

Research excellence depends on research integrity. We support individuals and units to deliver the
highest standards and best practice in research integrity and ethics. Committed to the Concordat
to Support Research Integrity, we have appropriate policies and procedures to ensure the
highest standards of rigour and integrity, and research is conducted according to appropriate
ethical, legal and professional frameworks.

To embed a culture of ethical behaviour which is valued and encourages challenge, we set clear
expectations, outlining both good and unacceptable practices in areas such as authorship, data
management, collaboration, public engagement. Focussed workshops discuss and share best
practice in emerging aspects of ethics. We were the first HEI to require PGRs to undertake ethics
and integrity training (tailored to their discipline), with 91% of the most recent cohort reporting
improved understanding. When defining criteria for responsible research assessment, we are
considering how they uphold research integrity and avoid incentivising poor practice.

Transparent, robust, and fair processes manage allegations of research misconduct, with
impartial investigations using external advice where necessary. Our whistleblowing policy
enables staff to raise concerns at a high-level without fear of reprisal. In 2019 we introduced
'Report and Support', to enable staff and students who have experienced bullying, harassment,
verbal, or physical abuse to report it confidentially.




                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



 3. People


Our research community has a strong sense of identity and values. Central to this is a commitment
to champion diversity and inclusion to deliver excellence.

Staff development

Supporting staff to realise their potential is a key enabler
for our research strategy.

We introduced Academic Career Pathways (ACP) in
2018 to provide a transparent framework for career
development. Within the academic and research-
specialist pathways, core and optional criteria allow
individuals to focus on, and develop, their strengths in
research and leadership. Clear expectations for outputs,
impact, income, PGR supervision and professional
standing at each career stage are proportionally
reduced for those with equality-related circumstances
including part-time working, career breaks, family leave and ill-health.

Institutional policy for research time and resources flexes to take into account individual
circumstances. Our workload allocation model protects time for research, scholarship, and impact;
this increases to accommodate funded investigator time and PGR supervision. All academic staff
are entitled to research leave, for impact as well as research, after each seventh semester.

Annual progress reviews are complemented by research-specific planning meetings to discuss
aspirations for funding, writing and impact, and to signpost relevant support. Consultation identified
that targeted support for mid-career researchers to become research leaders, to apply for strategic
or large grants are highly valued and we will continue to develop our provision.

We signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment in 2018, prompting a
critical review of performance assessment. We focus on using the right indicators, rather than
those which are easily accessible: ACP ensures outputs are assessed on their own merit, by those
with disciplinary expertise and never relying on metrics alone. We are changing our recruitment
practices to match. We will implement feedback mechanisms for staff to report bad practice with an
independent panel to review cases and recommend improvements.

Early career researcher support

As future research leaders, ECRs are key to our long-term success. In 2014, we invested £10m in
34 Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows to grow areas of research strength. Tailored support and skills
development enabled independent research programmes, collaborations, and significant funding
awards. All progressed to academic positions, nine advancing to senior lecturer and one to
professor. They have secured £16.9m in external funding, produced 565 research outputs, and
lead on six impact case studies.




                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
We invested £1m of GCRF-QR funding in 2019 in 13
Global Challenge ECR Fellows who work with global
partners to address challenges faced by developing
countries, from labour exploitation to global food
security and tackling plastic waste.

We have had 391 externally funded fellowships in the
period. Units have developed strategies to attract and
retain excellent ECRs. For example, in 2017, the
Faculty of Science introduced guaranteed progression
to an open-ended contract for fellowships of over 4-
years, attracting 16 high-calibre externally funded
fellows.

We have held the HR Excellence in Research Award
since 2012 (renewed 2019) based on our success in exceeding the requirements of the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers:

   •   The award-winning Think Ahead programme is a comprehensive framework that gives
       ECRs a career trajectory plan and tailored development opportunities corresponding to
       Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework, including skills training to support careers
       outside of academia. Over 7,000 ECR/PGRs have attended development and work-based
       opportunities run by our specialist team.

   •   Our research-led mentoring programme has two intakes per year. 667 staff have
       undertaken the programme since 2014, benefiting from the support of 245 mentors who
       advise on output writing, grant application, PGR supervision and impact.

   •   Researchers are entitled to 1 day per month for professional or career development
       (exceeding the 10 days in the Concordat). Our ‘Aspire’ and ‘Inspire’ charters set out clear
       expectations of ECRs and their managers respectively.

Postgraduate research students

Enhancing our PGR experience is a key priority in our research strategy. We aim to be the
institution of choice for PGRs through our research excellence, innovative training, and
commitment to career development and wellbeing.

We have a diverse PGR community of around 4,000, representing 106 countries. 46% are women,
7% of UK PGRs are BAME, 13% are disabled. We offer the range of doctoral qualifications
including EngD, MD and professional doctorates and have made 4,739 awards during the period.

Our hub and spoke governance model sees the University PGR Committee agree policy (such as
funded medical and shared parental leave), while Faculty Graduate Schools ensure consistent
high-quality student support and a network to share good practice in recruitment and progression
across units. Highlight developments include:




                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Recruitment: We have shifted our focus from quantity
to quality, empowering units to identify the size of PGR
community they need for a vibrant environment,
balanced against supervisory capacity. We have started
to define widening participation in the context of PGR, to
ensure we offer support and can further diversify our
applicant and recruit pools. The Sheffield-led White
Rose DTP has launched a seminal scheme with the
Stuart Hall Foundation ring fencing UKRI funded
studentships for Black British PGRs.

To ensure we can achieve our recruitment aims, we
invested £186m in PGR scholarships, including £98m
of institutional investment. 20 Centres of Doctoral
Training and Doctoral Training Partnerships have £78m
of competitive funding from all of the UK Research Councils, Wellcome and others.

PGR wellbeing: a project exploring the pressures on PGRs brought together community
consultation with the literature to make recommendations for change. Units and students were
asked a ‘magic wand’ question (what one thing would make the most significant wellbeing
improvement) which enabled prioritisation. All of the high priority issues have been addressed,
including introduction of mandatory supervisor training; new wellbeing advisors in units; a PGR-
specific hardship fund; funding for medical leave of absence for our own funded students; a peer
mentoring scheme.

Submission in tuition-fee paying period: Our four-year submission rates have improved from
63% to 79%. Since 2018, our focus has shifted to submission within tuition fee-paying period (now
a University Council KPI). Our exploration of PGR wellbeing highlighted that unclear and unrealistic
expectations are a major source of poor mental health. This led us to redefine the essential criteria
and competencies required to achieve a doctorate so that from 2019 all entrants have a
programme that gives them a realistic expectation of submission within their tuition fee-paying
period.

Progression and development: Effective induction and systematic peer support ensure new
PGRs are welcomed into a supportive environment. Confirmation review by 12 months, and
submission review at 36, ensure they are on track to submit their thesis within their tuition fee-
paying period. There are regular opportunities and funding to present and share research at
seminars, journal clubs, retreats, symposia, poster competitions and conferences. 85% of PGRs
have attended a conference and 73% have presented a paper or poster. PGRs are supported to
secure placements, and we offer three-month bursaries to prepare results for publication and to
develop impact post-submission. Business or public-engagement ideas receive support from a
dedicated enterprise team.

Our Doctoral Development Programme provides discipline-specific and professional skills training.
We recognise that career pathways are increasingly diverse, and our skills training has evolved in
response. Training needs analysis provides a personalised programme including taught modules,
careers advice and coaching, thesis mentoring, and placements or collaboration with partners.
‘Think Further’ offers development in bite-size pieces through weekly coaching prompts on monthly
topics. We have reviewed our programme to ensure it reflects the revised essential criteria and
competencies PGRs need to evidence to achieve their doctorate.



                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Supervisor support: Ensuring supervisors have the right skills to motivate and guide is a key
priority. We have introduced mentoring for new supervisors; mandatory CPD for all supervisors
based on supportive peer discussions to explore the practice of supervision rather than simply
providing ‘tick box’ training; and best practice workshops. Our ‘Supervisionaries’ programme
celebrates excellent supervision and ‘associate supervisor’ status enables researchers to be
recognised for formal and informal roles.

Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

Our academic and research staff base is diverse: 34.4%
are international; 35% are women; 5% self-report as
disabled and 20% as BAME. We know there is more to
do.

We have introduced measures to ensure EDI is
considered in all decision-making. EDI directors sit on
executive boards in every unit and faculty. University
EDI Committee is chaired by the Deputy VC (herself
recognised in 2017 with an Excellence in Diversity
Award) and reports directly to Council. It has
representatives from staff networks, such as disability
and LGBTQ+ to ensure a voice in policymaking.

Gender: we hold an Athena SWAN silver institutional
award alongside 19 unit awards. Pro-active measures have improved gender balance in leadership
roles (a third of University Executive and 40% of Senate are women) and 25% of women
academics are professors (an increase in all faculties). We have the third smallest gender pay gap
in the Russell Group and plan to improve this. Our Women Academic Returners Programme
provides protected time and funding for research following family leave, addressing disruption to
research, career development and progression and helping units to retain female staff. Since 2014,
163 women shared £2.1m and consequently secured over £20m of grants, a return of over 800%.
In 2018, UCEA cited the scheme as an example of good practice.

Race: 20% of our staff are BAME. Our 2019 strategy and action plan set ambitious targets to
tackle under-representation, progression, and attainment as we work towards the Race Equality
Charter.

LGBTQ+: we won a 2018 HR Excellence Award for Open@TUoS which empowers staff to create
an open, inclusive environment for LGBTQ+ staff and students through focussed events,
campaigns, training and initiatives. Disclosure rates have increased by 11% for sexual orientation
and by 10% for gender identity. Our work has been recognised in seven consecutive years in
Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index: we are in the top 5% of employers and one of only four
Russell Group HEIs.

Wellbeing: is at the heart of the experience of working and studying at Sheffield. We signed the
Time to Change Pledge (2014) and the Mental Health Work Commitment (2020), committing us to
creating a positive environment where staff can talk openly and seek help where necessary. A free,
independent, confidential helpline and counselling service 24/7 for staff, students and their families,
and a range of online resources support colleagues to manage wellbeing. To identify problems at
the earliest opportunity, we fund Mental Health First Aid training, as well as having a network of
wellbeing champions in every unit. We are collaborating with the national charity Mind in the


                                                                                              Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Mentally Healthy Universities Programme to pioneer interventions and share learning with the
sector.

Consideration of EDI in our REF submission

We consider EDI in developing all core policies, processes, and guidance, mindful of the impact
our decisions have on staff with protected characteristics. Our REF Code of Practice placed EDI at
the centre of our preparations, with oversight from REF Steering Group (40% female). All decision-
makers undertook tailored training including recognising and countering implicit bias. We have
submitted 100% of our Category A Eligible staff. Equality impact assessments on our output
scoring and attribution found no evidence of systematic bias. Clear policy statements ensure there
will be no detriment to staff either in their independent researcher status or in the number of their
outputs submitted.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research income

Our strategy is to secure income which enables excellent research and effective translation across
the three scales: individual, unit and institution.

Academic leadership from the VP-R and Faculty
Directors of Research & Innovation ensures a strategic
focus to identify opportunities which match our strengths
and ambitions. For institutional bids we wish to support
at scale, they offer significant peer support and
coordinate match funding in excess of £15m annually.
Institutional awards including HEIF, Global Challenges
Research Fund QR, Policy QR and NPIF QR allow
targeted support and pump-priming of new research
and growth in existing strengths.

Professional services operate at institutional and unit
levels. 175 FTE provide expert support for grant
capture, management, dissemination and knowledge
exchange. We invest in their professional development
and career progression through networks, targeted training, and secondments. Institutional-level
support for interdisciplinary and cross-faculty strategic research teams recognises the challenges
of navigating requirements and processes across the institution. An exemplar of our approach is
the combination of academic and professional expertise to manage operational GCRF support and
decision-making. Our leading international development researchers act both as academics and
service delivery partners, offering training and mentorship to colleagues from disciplines new to
ODA projects. This has led to external funding in units new to working in ODA contexts. For
example, research on music and wellbeing in Colombia and Mexico. Unit-level teams focus on
disciplinary strengths. Structures implemented in 2018 have been transformational. E.g. Arts and
Humanities units have increased grant applications by 117% and internal funding for time to write
funding applications resulted in a ten-fold return on investment.

Specific implementation support for large or complex projects requiring cross-organisational
working avoids academic time being unnecessarily taken up piecing together what is required from

                                                                                            Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
across professional services (Estates, Procurement, Finance, HR). ‘Orange box’ kick-off meetings
ensure PIs have confidence in timely delivery of the steps required to start complex grants.

Evidence of the success of our support includes:

    •   £1.1bn of research income over this REF period (a 55% increase on REF2014)

    •   48% of our research comes from grants over £1m.

    •   Funding from 1,734 individual funders,

    •   60% of our grant income was peer-reviewed.

Significant EU funding from Framework and Horizon programmes reflects our strength and
alignment with EU priorities. We had 248 projects over the REF period with over 1,700 partners.

Industry income rose by 38% to £27m. 38% of our grants in the period involved collaboration with
a non-academic partner (£326m), putting us third nationally. For example, in our Flagship
Neuroscience Institute, Professor Mimoun Azzouz is academic lead of a €24.5m Pfizer-led
Innovative Medicines Initiative.

In-kind income and gifts: we have successfully developed strategic relationships leading to
sector-leading levels of in-kind contributions to support research activities, £44.9m in 2018/19 was
the highest nationally1.

Philanthropy supports our research objectives; our new £11m MRI-PET scanner (the only one in
the north of England) was part-funded by £2m of public donations to transform understanding of
diseases and their treatment. Housed in a purpose-built facility, this opened in 2019, is attached to
the Royal Hallamshire Hospital, and forms part of our Neuroscience Flagship.

Infrastructure and facilities supporting research

A mature estate of physical infrastructure, equipment and facilities supports novel research
and its translation.

A VP-R led group guides and oversees proposals for
equipment and capital to ensure quality, sustainability,
and reference to institutional and unit research priorities.
A dedicated Capital Research Manager ensures other
professional support is well coordinated.

Investment of £310m into new and upgraded
research infrastructure and facilities includes:

    •   An interdisciplinary initiative of £10m for
        studentships and equipment developed
        advanced microscopy to gain new insights into
        life and disease. Funders and partners
        worldwide supported state-of-the-art facilities
        and a team of talented researchers equipped to
        tackle major challenges in biomedicine.



1
Source: HEBCI

                                                                                             Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   •   The Arthur Willis Environment Centre: refurbished into a state-of-the-art ‘GroDome’ to
       simulate plant growth conditions for different global regions. This supports our Flagship
       Sustainable Food Institute and underpins GCRF partnership research with ODA countries.

   •   HumLab: offers Humanities scholars an acoustic sound booth and physiological, motion
       and eye-tracking capability, enabling cutting-edge interdisciplinary research. It was
       instrumental in winning a £1m Leverhulme Trust Research Leadership Award to
       understand what speakers know about languages and support foreign language learning.

   •   Over £80m for industry-scale engineering infrastructure, such as the collaborative Henry
       Royce Translational Centre, Laboratory for Validation and Verification and the Integrated
       Civil and Infrastructure Research Centre on the AMP.

   •   Three new translational research facilities on the AMP in 2018 following a £47m investment
       from the University, ERDF and UKRI. 3,000m2 of high-technology facilities enable industrial
       partners to access our research expertise and investigate feasibility of new technologies.

We play a leading role in the region by hosting very substantial NIHR-funded infrastructure to
support health science research. This includes the £5.2m Research Design Service, supporting
research across Yorkshire and the Humber, Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health
Research and Care, the School of Public Health and Clinical Trials Research Unit.

Maximising the potential of our infrastructure and facilities to deliver world-class research and
impact requires skilled technicians. We are a founding signatory of the Technician Commitment,
a nationwide scheme to address the challenges facing technical staff. Our action plan ensures
visibility, recognition, career development, and sustainability for our 600 technical staff. Notable
achievements include professional registration support, dedicated ‘Our Technicians’ website,
career profiles, nomination for national awards, reward schemes, TechNet, policies for research
output co-authorship, and collaboration with the National Technician Development Centre.

The AMRC also has a three-year apprenticeship programme. 131 apprentices have taken part in
the programme during the census period. Apprentices progress to a substantive technical position,
supported by a post-apprenticeship development framework. This structured approach allows us to
show our commitment to these staff and support their development to become fully rounded
technical staff.

We invest in digital infrastructure to support researchers in their day-to-day work, enable and
promote collaboration, and support successful funding applications. This includes:

   •   £8m p.a. on a comprehensive suite of research software applications.

   •   10TB of shared storage for each research project - over 20TB of research data storage in
       total.

   •   Four High Performance Computing platforms (with a 5th planned) are free to all (900
       monthly users) and provide resources to run cutting edge analytical techniques and data
       processes.

   •   A cluster of more than 120 research virtual machines (totalling nearly 900 CPUs)
       configured to support the specific needs of research projects including when working from
       home.




                                                                                            Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   •   Cyber Essentials certified assured computing for a secure and protected environment. Over
       1,000 researchers have completed the Cyber Essential Plus training and more than 4,000
       have completed the Protecting Research Training.

We give researchers the support needed to effectively use technology, including a coordinated
upskilling and training programme and unit-based technical support. A team of research software
engineers (RSE) support individual projects with software for high-performance computing, acting
as a critical enabler where recruitment of short-term expertise is difficult. Our RSE service
supported the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium to create an automated, high speed and
robust data pipeline from the gene sequencer into the analysis tooling. This meant that the project
was able to identify and track virus mutations and variants at a vastly higher throughput.

To ensure our digital infrastructure is fit for purpose for the next five years, we are investing £10m
to deliver our research and innovation IT strategy, developed through extensive consultation with
the research community. This includes greater use of cloud computing to store, process and
analyse research data, making platforms and tools available to researchers at the point that they
are needed. Expanding on our RSE model from Computer Science, we are creating a Data
Analytic Service to support the use of new methodologies and innovative data exploration
methods. Built as a partnership between Maths and IT Services it will support the robust use of Big
Data, data analytics, and visualisation throughout the University and with our regional and other
research partners.




                                                                                             Page 14
