Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Institute of Cancer Research (ICR)

 1. Context and mission

 The Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) is one of 17 independent member institutions of the
 federal University of London and specialises in research and postgraduate education related to
 cancer. The ICR was founded in 1909 and has a longstanding track record in basic, translational
 and clinical research. In the 2020 U-Multirank report, the ICR was rated fourth in the world for
 the citation rate of our research and first in the UK for top-cited research publications.

 The ICR has two London sites, in Chelsea and Sutton, co-located with our clinical partner, The
 Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust (RM). The ICR has an annual income of £131.8M and
 over 1,100 staff of whom over 70% are directly employed in research. During the 2019/20
 academic year, there were 365 registered students.

 The ICR's mission—Making the discoveries to defeat cancer—is delivered through three
 strands.

 Research: Our ICR/RM Joint Research Strategy seeks to overcome the challenges posed by
 cancer’s complexity, adaptability and evolution through scientific and clinical excellence,
 innovation and partnership.

 Education: Our Learning and Teaching Strategy, in which we aim to educate and train the next
 generation of cancer researchers and clinicians.

 Operations: Our Operational Strategy sets out what it takes to power the ambitions of our
 research, learning and teaching.

 The ICR’s aim is to achieve direct improvement of patient care and health outcomes through
 earlier diagnosis, more targeted and effective treatments, the reduction in side effects and
 improved quality of life. In pursuit of our mission, we deploy a comprehensive range of research
 disciplines to achieve a better understanding of how cancers develop and respond to therapy
 and to translate this knowledge into improvements in diagnosis and treatment. This range
 combines fundamental research into the biology and evolution of cancer (submitted to UOA5:
 Biological Sciences) and translational and clinical research (submitted to UOA1: Clinical
 Medicine). The ICR is organised into eight Scientific Divisions and, to enable cross-disciplinary
 scientific interaction, many Team Leaders (academic staff) hold joint appointments across
 Divisions.

 2. Strategy

 Research strategy
 ICR has an established track record in genetics, cancer biology, structural biology, discovery
 and development of cancer therapeutics (drugs and precision radiotherapy), clinical
 development of immunotherapies, clinical trials and magnetic resonance imaging. Research is
 led by a critical mass of experienced, internationally renowned clinicians and biomedical
 scientists (6 FRS, 11 FMedSci and 7 National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Senior
 Investigators [3 holding Emeritus Senior Investigator status]).

 We review our research focus frequently to ensure we respond rapidly to scientific and
 technological developments. We now know that a reason why cancer is so difficult to treat is
 that, not only is it enormously complex, but also evolves over time, adapting in response to its
 environment and to treatment. Whilst the promise of molecularly-targeted therapeutics in cancer
 has been realised with ground-breaking clinical advances, to which we have significantly
 contributed, their potential has been limited by almost universal emerging resistance to therapy.
 We therefore recognise that tumour heterogeneity, evolution and resistance are the major
 clinical challenges to realising durable patient benefit. We also recognise the potential offered by

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 modulation of the immune response in cancer patients. With these factors in mind, the ICR and
 RM Joint Research Strategy for the period 2016–2021 is to target the mechanisms driving
 tumour heterogeneity, to combat cancer adaptability and resistance to treatment. The strategy is
 structured into four pillars:




 Interdisciplinary research
 The ICR is a small, integrated organisation with an embedded team science approach running
 across all areas of research from fundamental biology, physics and chemistry through to
 translational and clinical research. We believe that many of the biggest challenges in cancer
 research will only be met by adopting an interdisciplinary ‘team science’ approach (see Future
 Plans). We have established structures, cultures and systems that recognise and promote
 interdisciplinary research and team science, for example by emphasising explicitly its importance
 in appraisals, holding a team science competition and through our research training. The ICR
 Annual Conference is an integral part of our academic calendar, helping to foster new
 collaborations and bringing together researchers from all disciplines.

 Development of research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The ICR and RM partnership is crucial to conducting research for patient benefit. During the
 REF period we have reviewed our joint working arrangements, revised our Honorary Faculty
 appointment process, and enhanced our joint governance.

 In 2016 we established a strategic partnership between ICR and Imperial College London
 (Imperial)—a Cancer Research Centre of Excellence—and together we have been awarded
 Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Major Centre status. Under the founding Director, Professor Paul
 Workman FRS, we have established the CRUK Convergence Science Centre, which brings
 together leading researchers in engineering, physical sciences, life sciences and medicine to
 develop innovative ways to address challenges in cancer. We are also combining ICR’s
 expertise in cancer epidemiology and genetics with Imperial’s School of Public Health to create
 and develop a joint Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Unit. The Unit’s founding Director is
 Professor Elio Riboli.

 ICR and RM have both joined the Imperial College Academic Health Science Centre (AHSC), a
 strategic University-NHS partnership that aims to accelerate the translation of scientific
 breakthroughs into innovative ways to provide patient care.

 We work in partnership, nationally and internationally with leading funders and industrial
 collaborators through:
     • CRUK Accelerator Awards: we lead two and are involved in an additional eight of these

                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        collaborative projects.
    •   The UK Experimental Cancer Medicine Centres (ECMC) Adult and Paediatric Network,
        which is vital for conducting early phase trials in a multi‑centre setting.
    •   Leadership of the Prostate Cancer UK and the Movember Foundation-funded London
        Centre of Excellence.
    •   The Breast Cancer Now Centre, a partnership with the charity of more than 20 years,
        brings together scientists and clinicians to focus on breast cancer biology, diagnosis
        and treatment.
    •   Children’s Brain Tumour Centre of Excellence, joint between the University of
        Cambridge and the ICR.
    •   Founding members of the international Elekta MR Linac Consortium established to
        facilitate evidence-based introduction of MR-guided radiotherapy (MR Linac) with
        members across the USA, Europe and Canada.

 Enabling the impact of ICR research
 The fourth Pillar of our research strategy is to “Make it count” by embedding new treatments,
 technologies and approaches into routine healthcare, by building an evidence base to support
 their adoption, leading through national and international networks, and influencing healthcare
 policymakers. To meet our aims we:
     • Systematically translate the findings from basic science to clinical research, then take
         learnings from the clinic back to the bench (reverse translation).
     • Lead practice-changing trials.
     • Partner with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical equipment companies.
     • Lobby for changes to improve the ecosystem for drug innovation.

 Delivery is facilitated by the Business and Innovation Office, which manages our industrial
 collaborations, identifies opportunities for commercialisation and devises exploitation routes; and
 through the Communications and Policy Directorate, which is responsible for our public
 engagement and policy work. We work closely with organisations such as PraxisAuril to share
 best practice.

 ICR contributions to the economy and society
 ICR has an outstanding track record in delivering against its mission and taking scientific
 discoveries through to the clinic resulting in both improved outcomes for patients and
 considerable economic impact.

 We are playing a leading role in the discovery and development of new cancer drugs. An
 analysis carried out in 2018 revealed that ICR was directly involved in 17 of the 97 cancer drugs
 licensed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) between 2000 and 2016. ICR researchers
 were involved in identifying drug targets, designing and discovering new drugs, and leading the
 evaluation of drugs in clinical trials with the RM. We have been involved in some of the most
 important advances in treatment in the last two decades, working with commercial partners to
 take treatments to patients. As well as discovering abiraterone, we pioneered the targeting of
 BRCA-mutated cancers with olaparib, which became the first cancer drug to be licensed that
 exploits an inherited genetic fault.

 We developed and supported the implementation of improved radiotherapy regimens. Based on
 ICR-led clinical trials, shorter standard curative radiotherapy regimens have been adopted
 internationally. For patients, the shorter regimens lead to reduced side effects, less time off work
 and savings in travel time and costs without loss of very high levels of cancer control. Healthcare
 systems also benefit from reduced treatment costs.

 Other indicators are:
    • A 2017 Times Higher Education report placed the ICR in the top 10 universities
        worldwide for collaboration with industry. ICR filed 92% of patent applications with an
        industry partner, compared to an average of 60% for Higher Education Institutions.


                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   U-Multirank 2020 placed the ICR second worldwide for the number of our publications
        cited in patents.

 Future research plans
 Working with our partners and collaborators, and building on successes from our current
 research strategy, we are:
    • Establishing a Centre of Genome Stability Research to further enhance our
        understanding of genome stability and the DNA damage response and their implication
        for tumorigenesis and cancer treatment.
    • Co-locating the Centre for Evolution and Cancer with the Cancer Therapeutics Unit in the
        new Centre for Cancer Drug Discovery (see Infrastructure) to harness our
        understanding of tumour evolution and drug resistance to develop more effective
        treatment strategies.
    • Forming a Centre for Translational Immunotherapy to enhance links between ICR and
        RM teams working on the immunotherapeutic aspects of cancer research.
    • Establishing The Radiation Research Centre of Excellence (RRC) at ICR/RM, a
        programme of interlinked preclinical and clinical research themes as part of the CRUK
        Radiotherapy Network (RadNet).
    • With RM, developing an Integrated Pathology Unit to rapidly translate research
        advances in digital pathology.

 Engagement with diverse communities and the public
 Our public engagement strategy stresses our responsibility as a publicly funded higher
 education institution and charity to communicate openly about our work. We have a focus on
 engaging with schools and local communities in Sutton and Chelsea, enhancing support for
 projects such as The London Cancer Hub (see later). Following a recent review, we will
 strengthen the focus on engagement with schools, and with under-served groups—especially
 work to reach children from disadvantaged backgrounds or ethnic minority groups who might not
 consider a career in science.

 ICR and RM worked together with Patient Representatives to develop the NIHR Biomedical
 Research Centre (BRC) strategy to engage and involve patients in our research. We build strong
 links between researchers and patients, promote the benefits of patient involvement and share
 best practice. We ensure patients have a voice in prioritising research, train our researchers in
 engagement, and involve patients, carers and the public throughout the research cycle.

 The ICR focuses its policy engagement and influencing in areas where we have extensive
 expertise, for example, drug discovery and development, radiotherapy, clinical trials, patient
 data, industry collaboration and genetics. The ICR’s 2019 Summer Summit brought together
 experts from leading academic institutions, charities, stakeholder groups and pharmaceutical
 companies to create and publish a nine-point plan providing practical recommendations to
 improve access to new cancer treatment.

 Future impact plans
 We are working on a major initiative with the London Borough of Sutton and RM to deliver a
 world-leading life science campus specialising in cancer research, treatment, education and
 enterprise, The London Cancer Hub. It will offer research and development space for biotech,
 pharma, software and equipment companies. With the potential to create 13,000 new jobs and
 contribute an estimated £1.2B p.a. to the UK economy, it will drive growth across Sutton and
 rebalance the local economy, which is currently heavily skewed towards housing. Work has
 begun on incubator space, which is due to open in late 2021.

 Open research environment
 The ICR supports open access publication and is committed to disseminating our research
 widely for maximum public benefit. The library supports researchers in ensuring publications are
 made open access through regular communications, training and covering the costs of gold
 open access. To achieve compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data; we have

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 developed and maintain open source software tools, deposit datasets in public repositories,
 provide access to datasets and promote our research widely to a range of audiences.

 A culture of research integrity
 The ICR is committed to upholding the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Responsibility
 rests with the ICR’s Executive Board who have sponsored a programme of activities to refresh
 training, introduce Research Integrity Champions and enhance awareness. The ICR’s
 Guidelines on Good Research Practice emphasise the importance of integrity and rigour in all
 research carried out at, and in partnership with, the ICR, and ensure that all researchers are
 aware of their obligations with respect to proper scientific conduct. Staff and students undertake
 courses in: research integrity, good research practice, research culture, academic writing,
 publication, authorship and open access, intellectual property, statistics and experimental design
 and analysis, research ethics and governance, data management, leadership and supervision
 and mentorship.

 All ICR research involving human participants is subject to ethical approval, through submission
 to the joint ICR/RM Committee for Clinical Research prior to submission to the NHS Research
 Ethics Committee. We are committed to ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and security of
 personal information relating to participants in research. We have a mandatory online data
 protection training module and a Data Quality Champions Network, which promotes and advises
 on best practice.

 The ICR activities in this area include:
    • A signatory to the 2014 Concordat on Openness on Animal Research.
    • Selected as a Leader in Openness by the Understanding Animal Research Society
       (2019).
    • Signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) in support of
       fairer assessment of research achievements (2018). ICR recruitment, tenure review and
       promotion policies include explicit statements that journal impact factors will not be used
       in these assessments.

 3. People

 We aim to attract and retain the very best staff; to promote a sustainable structure with an
 appropriate balance of early career and senior researchers and support staff; and to nurture the
 development and progression of all staff.

 In July 2020 our REF independent researchers fell into the following age bands: 26–40 (18.9%),
 40–50 (36.0%), 50–60 (28.8%), >60 (16.2%).

 Our scientific workforce is multinational, with 51 countries represented. Our 143 postdoctoral
 researchers come from 32 countries.

 Team Leader recruitment
 Taking into account the views of the Research Leadership Board, recommendations from our
 International Scientific Advisory Board and, where relevant the feedback from quinquennial peer-
 reviews of major funding, the CEO makes strategic decisions about when to recruit new Team
 Leaders into specific Divisions and/or research areas. Appropriate Search Committees are then
 convened and, as part of our Athena Swan Charter action plan, always have a gender balance.
 Team Leaders recruited by Search Committees are either tenured Faculty (for senior
 appointments) or Career Development Faculty (CDF) on tenure‐track with a six‐year
 appointment.

 The ICR and RM work together on succession planning for clinical researchers. We support
 research active RM NHS clinicians by awarding Honorary Faculty status. We recruit team
 leaders from industry as part of our Impact Strategy. Where there is a strategic need to cement
 collaborations and partnerships, we make joint appointments with other institutions.

                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Over the period of assessment, we have recruited 12 CDFs and 20 tenured Team Leaders,
 some at Reader or Professorial level.

 Start-up packages and mentoring
 We provide new Team Leaders with access to excellent core research facilities, targeted
 allocation of a PhD studentship and a start-up package for equipment, consumables and staff as
 well as substantial (typically 20–50%) matched funding for major equipment items applied for on
 research grants. CDFs are mentored by their Head of Division, and an independent senior team
 leader. We enable them to gain supervisory and leadership skills through training, such as the
 European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO) Laboratory Leadership for Group Leaders
 course and the ICR’s Effective Research Degree Supervision workshop. A CDF Forum has
 regular meetings and is represented on the CEO Forum to highlight issues they are having and
 feed into ICR decision-making.

 Tenure review
 CDF progress is overseen by the Dean of Research and Academic Affairs. We perform “mid-
 term” reviews early in the third year of appointment to provide timely feedback. Tenure review
 occurs no later than the end of the fifth year.

 Bespoke pay structure
 To achieve our aims it is important to provide a sustainable attraction and retention employment
 offer to meet the requirements of national and international markets. We conduct frequent
 market testing to ensure we are competitive with other leading cancer research organisations. In
 2019 we restructured the ICR pay model to:
           • Align with and support organisational goals.
           • Be affordable and sustainable.
           • Recognise and support performance and contribution.

 Staff development
 We invest heavily in training. The ICR has committed to implementing the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. We were one of the first
 organisations to achieve the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award (2010)
 and have received a successful 10-year review. We are a founder member of the Technician
 Commitment, and received a successful 8-year review in 2019.

 Career development provision greatly increased between 2013 and 2020 with a major focus on
 supporting early career researchers through the transition points—student to postdoctoral
 researchers and postdoctoral researchers to independent researcher.

 Our Learning and Organisational Development team works closely with ICR’s four Staff
 Associations (Student, Postdoc, Scientific Officer and CDF), Academic and Corporate
 Leadership Boards, and the Research Degrees Committee to identify, deliver and evaluate
 training. Staff associations manage their own budgets and promote a range of activities,
 including away-days, scientific conferences, training courses and careers conferences, and also
 inform, prioritise and help to deliver the 150 training and career development activities provided
 each year. There is an active exchange of course places between the ICR and other HEIs to
 ensure our researchers have access to the widest possible range of opportunities.

 “The Pathway to Independence; Developing Future Scientific Leaders”, an innovative residential
 programme, was developed through collaboration between the ICR, the Biotechnology and
 Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. The
 programme supports postdoctoral researchers at the point in their career when they are seeking
 their first independent research position. We surveyed our postdoctoral researchers who left
 between 2009–2018: 93% of these ICR alumni are in science- or education-related roles with
 over 15% achieving independent academic roles.



                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Through the Clinical Academic Forum, a network for early career clinical academics, we operate
 a continuous dialogue on training needs. We provide mentoring from senior clinical academics to
 support the transitions between clinical training and research. In addition, we run the “Pathway
 to Independence: clinical academics in cancer research” residential programme, providing
 intensive coaching to prepare for academic independence and applications for clinician scientist
 awards. This has been delivered twice since 2016 and is open to national BRCs. 50% of all 2016
 participants now hold clinician scientist fellowships, clinical lectureships or principal investigator
 awards.

 Research students
 Through the ICR’s Learning and Teaching strategy, we continually enhance our research degree
 programmes, aiming to attract the highest calibre of students and deliver exceptional support
 both during their research degree and in the transition to their next research role. Over the
 2019/20 academic year, there were 222 students registered on research degrees—174 PhD
 (26% clinical) and 48 MD(Res).

 Our research programmes are organised on an ICR-wide basis. The Academic Dean’s Team
 and the Registry are responsible for the management of all education and training activities,
 ensuring that all students receive appropriate supervision and have adequate resources
 available. There is an active student society, student confidant system and a student-organised
 buddy system for international students.

 The ICR participates in the Higher Education Academy’s Postgraduate Research Survey
 (PRES). When this biannual survey was last undertaken, in 2019, 92% of ICR students agreed
 that they were satisfied with their overall experience, the highest satisfaction rate across the UK.
 Over the full REF period, 88% non-clinical students moved into science-based roles in academia
 or industry as a first destination post-graduation.

 Equality and diversity
 As part of our 2016–2021 research strategy, we committed to an “open, equal and collaborative
 culture”, recognising that equality, diversity and inclusion is integral to our research success.

 Our six ICR Values (see below), launched in 2018, are embedded in appraisal, recruitment,
 management training, induction training and promotion processes. Equality and diversity is
 included in these—primarily in “Valuing all our people”.
                                                                  Working together
               Pursuing excellence
                                                                  We collaborate with colleagues
               We aspire to excellence in
                                                                  and partners to bring together
               everything we do, and aim to be
                                                                  different skills, resources and
               leaders in our fields.
                                                                  perspectives.
               Acting with integrity                              Leading innovation
               We promote an open and honest                      We do things differently in ways
               environment that gives credit and                  that no one else has done before,
               acknowledges mistakes, so that                     and share the expertise and
               our actions stand up to scrutiny.                  learning we gain.
               Valuing all our people                             Making a difference
               We value the contribution of all                   We all play our part, doing a little
               our people, help them reach their                  bit more, a little bit better, to help
               full potential, and treat everyone                 improve the lives of people with
               with kindness and respect.                         cancer.

 The ICR has been a member of the Athena Swan Charter since 2009 and gained a Bronze
 award in 2012. We worked with AdvanceHE (then the ECU) to develop an Athena Swan

                                                                                                    Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 scheme relevant to research institutes, and were awarded Silver in 2015, renewed in 2019.

 The ICR’s median gender pay gap in 2019 was 9.5% due to more men than women
 occupying senior, more highly paid, roles and in particular senior clinical academics whose
 pay is determined by NHS/ Universities and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA) and not
 by ICR. Whilst this is reflective of the wider higher education sector, we are committed to
 changing our balance through how we recruit at senior levels and provide more support for
 the progression of women in their careers at the ICR.

 The ICR is a Stonewall Workplace Equality Champion, actively creating a workplace where all
 are accepted as themselves, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.

 For a month in 2019, the ICR hosted the Black Dog campaign to start conversations about
 mental health. This campaign formed part of our wider wellbeing initiatives.

 In 2020, we launched a major new project, “BAME: Beyond the statements”, which delivers
 on our commitments to address systemic racial inequalities in higher education and create a
 culture where all can thrive. Actions include appointing champions to promote ethnic diversity,
 race equality survey and focus groups, workshops on talking about race and new career
 development initiatives for BAME staff and students. We are not eligible for the Race Equality
 Charter in its current form but are working with AdvanceHE to develop a revised scheme for
 research institutes.

 Our immediate priorities for 2020 and 2021, resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, are to
 reduce disadvantages faced by parents/carers and disabled people when remote working and/or
 home schooling and supporting good mental health during the pandemic.

 The ICR’s long-term aim is to address the relative under-representation of women and BAME
 staff in senior roles (Team Leader and senior Professional Services roles).

 REF 2021 staff
 The ICR is submitting all staff with significant responsibility for leading research programmes
 (102.4 FTE) of whom 20.7% are early career researchers (ECRs). On REF census date, 66.9%
 were on permanent contracts. CDFs, those on personal fellowships and some senior Team
 Leaders beyond pensionable age hold fixed term contracts. The ICR put in place a process to
 allow REF eligible staff to voluntarily disclose circumstances that have affected their productivity
 during the period in an appropriate and confidential manner. We explicitly stated in our REF
 Code of Practice that selection of outputs from individual members of staff is for REF purposes
 only and is independent of any criterion/decision on promotion or career progression. All ICR
 recruitment, promotion and progression processes have mechanisms to allow individuals to
 declare any circumstances that may have impacted on research productivity.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The ICR's Operational Strategy sets out how we generate and allocate the resources needed to
 support our science and teaching. To deliver efficient and effective support services, this
 strategy is structured around two Pillars: “Growing income to provide vital funds”, and “Delivering
 a world-class environment”.

 Income
 Over the REF period, the ICR research income has grown from £48.8M in 2013/14 to an
 average of £71.5M p.a. over the past five years. Our Research England Higher Education
 Innovation Fund (HEIF) budget (£3.4M in 2019/20) enables us to provide the support required to
 deliver impact from our research discoveries. Our intellectual property income (£32M p.a. on
 average, £224M total) and legacies and donations (£11.7M p.a. on average, £93.8M total), in
 addition to core income from Research England, allows us to invest in cutting-edge, high-risk


                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 areas as well as capital projects and to support the full economic costs of research not covered
 by external research grants.

 Infrastructure
 Since 2013, we have opened three new research buildings:
     • The ICR/RM NIHR Centre for Molecular Pathology (£18.2M) co‑locates clinicians,
         pathologists and geneticists, a Clinical Genomics Research & Diagnostics laboratory, a
         translational immuno‑oncology laboratory and a dedicated biobanking facility.
     • The Centre for Cancer Imaging building (£20M) houses cutting-edge imaging
         techniques to develop imaging biomarkers and approaches to monitor response to
         treatment, including different magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) modalities, ultrasound
         and positron emission tomography scanners. It also provides completely new state-of-
         the-art animal facilities for the Sutton site.
     • The Centre for Cancer Drug Discovery). We successfully applied for £30M from the
         UK Research Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF) award as a vital part of the overall
         £70M capital costs. The Centre, which opened in 2020, has a gross internal floor area of
         7,325m2 and accommodates 283 researchers. It brings together the CRUK Cancer
         Therapeutics Unit with colleagues from the Centre for Evolution and Cancer.

 The RM/ICR NIHR competitively awarded BRC, was successfully renewed for a third time in
 2017 (£43M). This major benefit in-kind, together with that derived from being a CRUK Centre
 (renewed 2016, £16.1M) and an Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (renewed 2017,
 £2.56M), enables us to support an infrastructure in which we systematically take the findings of
 fundamental cancer research, cancer drug discovery and radiotherapy and physics through
 translational steps and into clinical trials.

 Facilities
 There has been a major change since REF 2014 in consolidating facilities and technical support,
 including the formation of a new Core Research Facilities unit operating across both sites to
 improve co-ordination, and strategic decision-making to planned major investments. The ICR
 has invested over £10M—in addition to funding from CRUK Centre Core Grant and Major Centre
 grants—in microscopy, proteomics, metabolomics, cryo-electron microscopy, genomics and
 bioinformatics.

 Major bids for equipment are reviewed at an ICR-wide Scientific Services Oversight Committee
 with recommendations made to the Research Leadership Board. A scheme has been introduced
 to support purchase of equipment through providing matching funding to partner with Research
 Council, Wellcome Trust and other sponsors’ contributions.

 Current commitments include £4M to refurbish the Chelsea animal facility, £1.6M for laboratory
 refurbishment and £15M to support further staff recruitment.




                                                                                            Page 9
