Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 1. Context and mission

 London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) is a single faculty, social science and
 humanities (SSH) institution in Westminster, London. Founded in 1895, we remain committed to
 our original vision as “a community of people and ideas, founded to know the causes of things,
 for the betterment of society”. Since its inception, LSE has worked to provide education and
 research for public benefit, and to promote intellectual debate and public engagement. Our
 mission is to advance knowledge to inform public policy, and to improve social, economic, and
 political outcomes nationally and globally. LSE’s location in central London ensures close
 contact with the major legal, financial and political institutions around us. A core aim of our 2030
 strategy is to be the world’s leading social science institution with the greatest global impact, to
 use our research to shape the world’s political, economic and social debate, and to convene the
 world in and from London.

 Our student body is diverse: in 2018/19, 68% of our 11,960 students came from overseas,
 representing 148 nationalities. We currently have 703 PhD students and 895 academic and
 research staff, of which 682 are REF-eligible. Eighteen Nobel Prize winners and 37 past or
 present world leaders or heads of government are LSE alumni.

 Research and teaching cover a wide range of SSH disciplines. Academic activity is structured
 into 23 Departments, three interdisciplinary Institutes and 20 Research Centres.

 LSE is a member of the University of London, the Russell Group, CIVICA: the European
 University of Social Sciences, the U7+ global universities alliance, the Association of
 Commonwealth Universities, and the European University Association.

 2. Strategy

 LSE’s main strategic research objective is to produce research outputs of the highest possible
 standard. To that end, our Research Strategy emphasises: recruiting and supporting world-class
 faculty; generating research income where this supports excellence; and promoting and
 sustaining an excellent research environment.


 As explained in the “People” section, LSE strives to recruit outstanding faculty, and candidates’
 potential to pursue path-breaking research is a priority at the hiring stage. Our recruitment
 processes are modelled on international best practice, which allow us to interact intensively with
 prospective colleagues and learn about their work. Our recruitment packages include globally
 competitive salaries, market supplements, housing support, and individual research accounts.
 We often have 200+ applications for a single assistant professorship. The introduction of new
 career tracks has enhanced our mechanisms for staff review, reward and promotion.

 Generating research income is supported where it facilitates research excellence. A central team
 helps develop high quality applications to peer-reviewed funding sources, and LSE Philanthropy
 and Global Engagement match research projects with potential donors’ interests.

 LSE’s governance structures promote a world-class research environment, with devolved but
 centrally supported Departments and Centres proactively developing research environments that
 reflect excellence in their own disciplines and specialisms. Departments support their local

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 research environment through Departmental research committees and Deputy Heads of
 Research. They use income from Summer Schools, executive education and the University of
 London International Programmes to support research activities in departments, such as
 seminars and workshops, and also to supplement individual Staff Research Funds, which cover
 costs for Research Assistants, purchasing data, attending international conferences, and so on.
 A Research Incentives Policy and generous study and sabbatical leave entitlements help make
 LSE internationally competitive. We manage to keep annual teaching loads low by UK HE
 standards: 80-100 hours per year, with additional reductions for Assistant Professors. Research
 Centres, Institutes and Research Groups within and between departments facilitate
 interdisciplinary research.

 For seven consecutive years, LSE has been ranked second in the world and top in Europe for
 Social Science and Management in the QS World University Rankings. The reach of our work is
 global: a recent KPMG audit of LSE research found that 359 projects had been conducted
 across 91 countries over the last five years.

 LSE’s approach to knowledge exchange and impact (KEI) builds on our excellent research. In
 alignment with the LSE 2030 strategic goal of extending our reach and influence, we seek to
 maximise opportunities for faculty and students to engage in KEI activities and realise the public
 benefits of their research.

 Our work benefits a wide range of extra-academic partners and users. Our KEI Strategic Plan
 2020-25 articulates LSE’s commitment to deepen and broaden our economic and societal
 impact through issue-oriented research and evidence-based interventions. We build on the
 strength of our London location to maintain and expand the breadth and depth of our existing
 connections with government, policy-makers, private and third-sector partners, our alumni
 networks and universities around the world to extend our influence, cultivating new relationships
 with the private sector and promoting the value of SSH research.

 LSE’s KEI Strategy Group comprises academic and professional services staff, grouping
 extensive knowledge of KEI gained through direct experience with external research users
 and/or research commercialisation. The group advises on strategies to encourage, facilitate and
 monitor KEI, and takes responsibility for making awards from LSE’s HEIF allocation, currently
 around £4 million per annum (£8,798 per REF-eligible staff). Approximately 66% of this is
 allocated to KEI infrastructures and initiatives, including the annual LSE Festival and School-
 wide blogs. The remaining 34% is allocated to the KEI Fund which provides flexible,
 competitively awarded funding to researchers and PhD students. Over the assessment period,
 over £5.5m has been awarded to 95 KEI projects. Non-competitive awards of £10,000 annually
 to all departments develop new impact activities and seed-fund new projects.

 The KEI Integrated Service is a support hub for faculty engaging in KEI activities, providing
 training on KEI activities, supporting the development of KEI funding bids and championing the
 appropriate inclusion of KE and public engagement throughout the research lifecycle.

 The Research and Innovation Division supports the realisation, enhancement and recording of
 excellent research impact and develops effective impact plans within external funding
 applications.

 LSE Consulting facilitates impact by monitoring opportunities for researchers and matching
 clients’ needs with academic specialists. Typically, Consulting facilitates £1.5m in fees to

                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 academics annually, and it contributes to over 150 research projects each year.

 The Public Affairs team manages LSE’s relationships with policymakers and matches LSE
 expertise with political priorities, including the Government’s Industrial Strategy Grand
 Challenges. The team monitors LSE research citations in Parliament and helps connect
 politicians with researchers, to take research into the heart of political debates. The team holds
 fringe events at the annual party conferences of all the major UK political parties, holding 5
 events with over 200 attendees in 2019, and took part in the 2019 Evidence Week at Parliament,
 where over 100 MPs and peers dropped into evidence pods to receive three-minute policy
 briefings directly from LSE researchers.

 LSE’s KEI Strategic Plan commits our KEI activities to serve the widest range of beneficiaries.
 LSE has worked to deepen and broaden its real-world impact and cultivate new private sector
 relationships. A Business Engagement Network coordinates corporate engagement activities by
 bringing together colleagues from across LSE who work with business. LSE Careers manages
 almost 14,000 employer relationships. Commercialisation works with academics to help turn
 their research into new businesses, products or services that benefit society, and LSE Generate
 supports and scales socially-driven student and alumni ventures. Corporate Engagement
 oversees our strategy for engaging with the private sector and provides a coordinated and
 effective offering to corporates, helping us develop research collaborations.

 In line with LSE 2030 strategy, we continue to expand our provision of free-to-access resources.
 All KEI-funded outputs and LSE blogs are free to access. Contributions from LSE academics,
 think-tanks, politicians, and third-sector experts mean that LSE’s wide-ranging blog platform is a
 hub for evidence-based commentary and accessible summaries of academic research. There
 are over 100,000 articles across 77 School blogs, and these received 10.7 million views over the
 2019/20 academic year.

 LSE’s public lecture programme is one of the largest of any UK HEI. Our events use a variety of
 formats to stimulate thought and debate and engage a wide audience. Over the assessment
 period we held over 1,100 events with over 250,000 attendees, and our public event podcast
 series has consistently ranked in the top two most popular iTunes HE podcasts. Since 2016 the
 School’s podcasts and research films have been downloaded an average of 14.8 million times
 per year.

 The annual, week-long LSE Festival engages external audiences with research from LSE and
 global thought leaders. In 2020, over 5,400 people attended 31 events. Shortly after the Festival,
 event podcasts had been downloaded over 280,000 times and social media content had
 reached 2 million.

 LSE supports two open-source repositories for publications and PhD theses, enabling
 researchers to make outputs available open access whenever possible. An Open Access
 Publications Policy applies to faculty and students. The Library provides a mediated deposit
 service and manages an annual institutional budget for open access. Over 40,000 items are
 freely available in LSE Research Online. The repository performs far beyond comparatively
 sized institutional repositories, recording 2,744,004 downloads in 2019.

 Launched in 2018, LSE Press is an open access publisher for SSH researchers around the
 world. The platform includes Houghton Street Press for publication of student-led journals. LSE
 is a member of the JISC-ORCID consortium and has a DataCite subscription for minting DOIs,

                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 both of which support discovery and citation of research. A Research Information Analyst
 supports academics with evidencing their research strengths and increasing research visibility.

 LSE’s Research Data Management Policy and Research Data Management Service support
 researchers and students with data management planning and data archiving. LSE’s Research
 Ethics Procedures require data management plans for all funded research. To support
 researchers with secure datasets the Library has ESRC funding to install a ‘SafePod’ in 2020.
 Deposits in the UK Data Archive have grown from 7 in 2014/2015 to 28 in 2019/2020. We have
 adopted the Leiden Manifesto principles on responsible use of metrics.

 The Code of Research Conduct requires all LSE faculty and students to observe the highest
 standards of integrity, honesty and professionalism in their work. Faculty and students are also
 required to abide by the School’s Ethics Code and Research Ethics Policy. Ethics reviews are
 required for any study involving human participants, using datasets with identifiable information,
 or for research that might have negative repercussions for individuals or groups. Whilst most
 reviews take place at Department level, studies deemed to be ‘higher risk’ are submitted to the
 Research Ethics Committee, which reviewed 244 applications in the 2019-20 academic year.

 Procedures for the investigation of allegations of misconduct are embedded within the Code of
 Research Conduct. A Whistleblowing Policy reinforces our commitment to an open culture
 where individuals are supported to raise concerns.

 LSE’s Code of Research Conduct is consistent with the UUK Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity, RCUK Policy and Guidelines on the Governance of Good Research Conduct, the
 UKRIO Code of Practice for Research and the UKRIO Procedure for the Investigation of
 Misconduct in Research.

 There is an ‘Ethics at LSE’ online training module and a research ethics component in the New
 Academic Induction Programme. Discipline-specific ethics training is offered within departments,
 including monthly research training workshops for PhD students, pre-dissertation training for
 MSc students, and weekly drop-in sessions for faculty and students on research ethics, data
 protection and data management.

 LSE addresses national priorities and contributes to international priorities and strategic
 development goals. We are engaged with the Research Councils’ Official Development
 Assistance priorities and continue to impact and influence the economy and society of those
 countries.

 Specific examples of LSE’s responses to research priorities include the ESRC-funded Centre for
 Macroeconomics where experts carry out pioneering research on the global economic crisis and
 design policies to reduce the likelihood of further crashes. The DfID-funded International Growth
 Centre provides demand-led policy advice on promoting sustainable growth in developing
 countries, and the Grantham Research Institute provides policy-relevant research and training
 on climate change.

 LSE continues to respond to domestic policy developments. We engage and input wherever
 appropriate to the Brexit negotiations and LSE Housing and Communities and LSE’s What
 Works Centre for Local Economic Growth are delivering impacts around devolution and the
 “Northern Powerhouse”.


                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 LSE’s goal for local growth and regeneration is to promote engagement with LSE research on
 London. LSE London and LSE Cities co-produce research with end users including local
 authorities and professional organisations. LSE research is supporting effective responses to the
 capital’s housing crisis and provides expertise on London’s spatial inequalities and the
 relationship between ethnic diversity and productivity. An LSE London expert provides
 leadership and enhanced connectivity between LSE and those working to address the capital’s
 challenges, bringing together academia, policy and industry.

 LSE has research partnerships and collaborations with a particular impact focus. Notably, the
 Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment collaborates closely with
 Imperial College London and the University of Leeds; the Centre for Macroeconomics with
 Cambridge and UCL; and the International Growth Centre with Oxford. LSE is a member of
 London First, a group championing the interests of London employers. We also have
 partnerships with University of California Berkeley, Columbia University, University of Cape
 Town, Fudan University, Peking University, National University of Singapore, and Sciences Po,
 raising our profile through teaching and promoting collaborative research.

 LSE values excellent research in any form, including interdisciplinary, transdisciplinary,
 multidisciplinary and collaborative work, hosting and providing match-funding for Institutes and
 Research Centres. As part of the 2030 Strategy, LSE is championing cross-cutting research
 themes aligned with UN’s Sustainable Development Goals in global health, climate change,
 migration, and data science.

 Over the assessment period, LSE has obtained 50 interdisciplinary grants with a total value of
 over £36 million (£52,785 per REF-eligible staff).

 3. People

 The aim of LSE’s recruitment procedures is to appoint the highest calibre faculty and research-
 only staff through an inclusive and fair process with collegial involvement at all levels.
 Departments’ recruitment strategies focus on building on existing research strengths or
 developing new specialisms. We recruit through open, active and global searches and receive
 outstanding applications from around the world. While initial recruitment is administered at
 departmental/centre level, in line with the relevant marketplaces for different disciplines, LSE’s
 Appointments Committee acts as the overall custodian of standards. Throughout, decision
 making is evidence-based and departments are subject to reviews to ensure that their
 procedures are in keeping with best practice in the HE sector and LSE’s strategic priorities.

 In 2013, LSE introduced a New Academic Career (NAC) structure. The new ranks are Assistant
 Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor. Promotion is based on excellence in research,
 education, and citizenship. Promotion to Associate Professor requires “internationally excellent”
 publications, while promotion to Professor requires “world-leading” publications. Comparable
 ranks on the New Research Staff Career (NRSC) are Assistant Professorial Research Fellow,
 Associate Professorial Research Fellow, and Professorial Research Fellow. The NRSC criteria
 focus on quality of research outputs, management of research activity and other contributions.
 The Promotions Committee engages in detailed scholarly evaluation of the publications
 submitted by each NAC and NRSC candidate, drawing on reports from distinguished referees at
 peer institutions. LSE scrupulously monitors the promotions process in relation to equity and
 diversity and reviews the system annually to identify areas for improvement.


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 All career academics and researchers have a senior mentor from whom they receive regular
 career advice and support. A formal Career Development Review scheme ensures annual
 meetings are held for all non-professorial academics with their Head of Department or
 Institute/Research Centre Director to assess performance against promotions criteria, and to
 allow colleagues to raise any concerns. Professional development for faculty is supported by a
 range of School units.

 Academic staff benefit from a generous sabbatical entitlement of one term for every eight terms
 of service. Certain School roles and offices carry enhanced entitlement. The timing of leave is
 agreed with Heads of Department, taking operational and staff equity considerations into
 account. LSE recognises the value of sabbatical leave for career development and considers it
 an important means of facilitating world-class research. In addition, many colleagues secure
 internal and external grants that include teaching replacement and/or buyout, and this – within
 limits – can be taken in addition to sabbatical. Academic staff are entitled to research leave of up
 to one term following significant absence from the School (e.g., maternity/shared parental leave
 or sickness) to help re-establish their research. Special leave may also be granted to faculty to
 visit another academic institution or to accept a temporary appointment elsewhere, including
 outside academia, that relates to their research.

 Research-only staff are strongly encouraged to play an active role in the life of their Department
 or Centre. Their involvement in drafting LSE’s REF Code of Practice has ensured REF
 preparation encompasses all research-active staff. Our Research and Policy Staff Committee
 monitors LSE’s work in relation to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and proactively ensures that our policies and provisions are closely aligned with
 Concordat principles. Career Development Review meetings for researchers are prioritised, and
 CDR completion rates amongst research staff are consistently above 85%.

 The School’s Concordat Action Plan sets out our commitment to supporting the career
 development of researchers, recognising the importance of personal and career development at
 all stages of their career irrespective of type of contract. Part-time and fixed term staff receive
 the same support as other colleagues including regular supervision, Career Development
 Reviews, mentoring and access to personal and career development opportunities.

 LSE 2030 celebrates the international diversity of the School’s staff and students. We are
 investing resources to support and advance diversity in recruitment, promote an inclusive staff
 experience, address systemic differences in career progression and ensure supportive policies
 to foster equitable and inclusive working practices. A comprehensive report by our EDI
 Taskforce on the gender pay and promotion gap for faculty initiated a pay equity review focusing
 on women. Of 108 faculty who had their salaries amended, a higher proportion of women (22%)
 than men (10%) received a pay rise.

 EDI considerations play a major role in our recruitment processes, and recruitment panels are
 monitored for gender balance. LSE is committed to increase the proportion of women at
 Assistant Professor level and above to 50% by 2024, and of BAME to 25%. We are also aiming
 to increase the number of women and BAME students pursuing PhDs, and are currently funding
 5 scholarships for women and 5 for BAME students to complete masters and PhD programmes.

 The New Academic Induction programme covers EDI issues, and all new starters are required to
 complete an online EDI module within three months of employment. EDI objectives are
 embedded into review processes for School Management Committee and Heads of Department;

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 a 30% gender target has been introduced for key School Committees, and in annual monitoring
 Departments are required to identify how they are addressing EDI issues. An EDI Advisers’
 Network, with representatives from all Departments and Divisions, conducts local priorities
 surveys and identifies target areas. All new and existing policies are undergoing EDI impact
 analysis within the next two years.

 The EDI Office has worked with the Gender Research and Education Society to improve LSE’s
 trans policy. Gender-neutral facilities are installed as standard in new buildings, Organisational
 Learning offer trans awareness training and LSE has hosted Stonewall’s LGBT+ Role Models
 and Allies programmes.

 LSE’s REF Code of Practice requires that for those outputs estimated to be of equal value,
 UOAs aim for a portfolio which is balanced in terms of outputs per author, and taking into
 account the protected characteristics of faculty where possible.

 In recognition of our progress, LSE has significantly improved its performance in the Workplace
 Equality Index and is now ranked in Stonewall’s Top 100. LSE is a Disability Confident (Level 1)
 employer, a holder of the HR Excellence in Research Award and received Athena SWAN
 Bronze in April 2020. LSE is working towards the ECU’s Race Equality Charter Mark.

 LSE understands the positive impact that flexible working can have on an individual’s wellbeing
 and productivity, and strives to support those seeking alternative working patterns. All staff can
 formally request flexible working, and informal arrangements can be agreed locally. All flexible
 working requests are considered in a fair and consistent way, with the number of successful
 applications growing steadily. LSE also encourages an agile approach to working where staff
 have resources to work in multiple locations including remotely.

 Rated as a top 30 Employer for Working Families in 2017, and recipient of the Cityfathers Best
 for all Stages of Fatherhood Award in 2015, LSE is recognised for supporting those with
 childcare responsibilities. LSE also recognises that parents’ and carers’ circumstances and
 needs are diverse and aims to provide an environment in which employees feel comfortable
 disclosing their caring responsibilities. We subscribe to the Employers for Carers Network and
 run a Parents and Carers’ Network to provide mentoring, regular meetings and events with
 internal and external speakers. Compassionate Leave includes paid leave when, in the absence
 of nursing arrangements, an employee is responsible for care.

 LSE’s Staff Mental Health and Wellbeing Policy emphasises our commitment to creating and
 promoting the conditions for wellness, acknowledging the individual nature of staff needs.

 All staff can access in-house counselling, fitness facilities, training, development, clubs and
 classes and LSE offers five paid days of volunteering leave per year to staff. LSE Faith Centre
 serves as a wellbeing hub, and staff networks promote the interests of women, BAME, disabled
 and LGBT+ communities.

 LSE is an ESRC recognised advanced training centre for postgraduate students, annually
 distributing 30 ESRC postgraduate studentships, and we receive studentships funded by the
 Arts and Humanities Research Council through the London Arts and Humanities Partnership.
 LSE also finances 70-75 PhD studentships, tenable for four years, covering full fees and an
 annual £18,000 stipend. Other scholarships are funded by departments, Research Councils and


                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 philanthropic support: 67% of PhD students enrolled at LSE in 2018/19 had full funding. All
 students are eligible to apply for funds to assist with costs associated with their course, and in
 the event of unexpected financial difficulties. Over the assessment period, PhD students
 received £68.3 million in studentships and stipends from School and external funds, including
 £47.4 million from Department and School-level studentships and £2.2 million from LSE’s
 Student Support and Postgraduate Travel Funds.

 All departments have a supervisory team for each student by the end of their first term of
 registration, and the LSE Eden Centre for Education Enhancement provides training and support
 for supervisors. The PhD Academy is a dedicated space and services hub for LSE doctoral
 candidates, offering one-to-one advice to students, PhD surgeries, a Development Programme,
 and annual ESRC DTP events. Over the assessment period the completion rate for PhD
 students was around 85%. LSE 2030 commits us to further enhance PhD training, grow the
 cohort and improve pastoral support through an integrated framework for postdoctoral and early
 career researchers.

 LSE engages PhD students with KEI activities as part of their research, welcoming applications
 from students to the KEI fund for awards of up to £2,000 and giving them access to support from
 the KEI Integrated Service.

 The Student Wellbeing Service offers free, confidential support services to cultivate student
 welfare. LSE runs Wellbeing Stalls around campus that coincide with events such as Time to
 Talk Day, where students can talk about their mental health. The newly established LSE LIFE is
 open daily, running workshops and offering students one-to-one advice on academic and career
 matters.

 PhD students and research staff have access to a specialist careers consultant and can book
 one-to-one career consultations and places at events, fairs and career building activities.
 Annually, more than 260 students use these consultations and 150 attend careers events. 98%
 of PhD students are employed within six months of leaving LSE. Approximately 60% of these
 are in academic posts (career-track faculty positions or postdocs) and 40% in international
 organisations, the commercial sector, or public service. Students may use the services of LSE
 Careers for up to 5 years after they leave.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Research and Innovation Division helps improve the quality of applications to peer-reviewed
 funding sources, liaises with external parties for contractual agreements and provides joined-up
 professional services that support the full research lifecycle. By exchanging best practice
 between departments and evaluating information on existing and emerging thematic priorities for
 the main funding programmes, the division supports departments with research funding streams
 and opportunities to create thematically based Research Centres. Over the assessment period
 LSE won 1102 grants from peer-reviewed external funders, totalling £311.6 million (£456,200
 per REF-eligible staff). Application success rates grew to their highest levels in 2018/19 at 66%.

 Research is supported by various internal funding sources. A Staff Research Fund allocates a
 fixed sum to individual faculty, and Departments supplement this with their own internal research
 funds. Research Infrastructure and Investment Funds (RIIF) are part-allocated to Departments
 and Centres to spend at their discretion, and to finance a Seed Awards scheme and a Bridging
 Fund. The former offers up to £20,000 to seed-fund projects; the latter provides up to four

                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 months’ salary for researchers to fill funding gaps between existing grants and secured future
 funding. Since 2015 LSE has allocated £7.75m from RIIF. LSE’s Research Incentives Policy
 provides financial rewards for faculty who win research funding both for themselves and for their
 Departments and Centres. This enables faculty to enhance their salaries, to buy out time from
 teaching and/or to provide unencumbered research funding. The policy makes LSE’s research
 environment more attractive to current and prospective staff and provides a more sustainable
 financial framework for Departments and Centres.

 LSE maintains a positive attitude towards buyouts and matched funding to build and sustain
 viable research infrastructures, providing resources over and above 100% FEC. For the last few
 rounds of Research Centre funding, LSE has offered 10-15% of the overall budget, funding
 centre managers, administrative teams and up to three PhD scholarships in each Centre. In
 response to increased expectations of host institution commitments, for 2018-28 LSE forecasts
 making contributions of £2m to £4m per year on hosting Research Centres, Institutes and
 Research Fellowships.

 LSE’s Financial Plan and Funding Principles provide a robust and transparent framework to
 ensure LSE’s financially stable future. The Research and Innovation Division monitors changes
 in the external funding environment and seeks to diversify LSE’s funding.

 Additional research income is earned through LSE Philanthropy and Global Engagement which
 identifies individuals, companies and foundations capable of making donations of over £50,000,
 matching research projects with funding needs to the interests of potential donors. Over the
 assessment period, LSE received £80.9 million in donations and endowments or £118,622 per
 REF-eligible FTE.

 The LSE Library is the largest SSH library in the world. Its collection includes over 1.5 million
 catalogued books, over 200,000 electronic serial titles, 15,000 e-journal subscriptions, significant
 online databases and a growing digital library. It holds unique collections of national significance
 in British political and economic history, including archives, primary sources and supporting
 materials. The Library holds The Women’s Library, a collection of printed material, archives and
 3D objects focusing on campaigns for women’s rights and women’s equality.

 The Library provides tailored support for researchers, including one-to-one publishing advice,
 citation analyses and bibliometrics and journal metrics training. Each academic department can
 access subject expertise, personalised support on research sources, and use of archives and
 primary source material.

 LSE’s Behavioural Research Lab is open to researchers across LSE, allowing them to conduct
 computer-based surveys, tasks or games and discussion-based experiments or focus groups,
 and maintains a participant database of around 2,000 contacts. Over the assessment period, the
 Lab has hosted 194 studies by faculty and research students with over 32,000 participants.

 The LSE Data and Technology Services Division provides IT services, facilities and training. It
 provides and supports over 1,000 networked computers on School premises, many equipped
 with specialist software, and runs LSE’s High Performance Computing service allowing
 researchers to undertake computer-intensive tasks and process large datasets. Over the
 assessment period, the Division spent around £280,000 per year exclusively on supporting
 research.


                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 LSE is committed to providing a high-quality campus and is investing over £300 million in capital
 development over the next decade. New Centre Buildings opened in 2019, providing state-of-the
 art teaching, learning and social spaces. A Research Hub provides flexible space including
 offices, open plan work stations and a conference suite for LSE Research Centres, and the PhD
 Academy provides dedicated seminar space, an advice office and common room for LSE’s
 doctoral training centre. Space Norms support research activities including single offices for
 Assistant, Associate and Full Professors, shared offices for Fellows, Researchers, Lecturers and
 Visiting Professors and 1:1 workspaces for PhD students. The Marshall Building is scheduled to
 open in 2021, and the 35 Lincoln’s Inn Fields Building is being converted into a conference and
 education facility to increase and enhance extra-academic engagement with LSE research.

 We seek to maximise the local benefits of our assets, working with Westminster City Council and
 following the Westminster Code to improve the environment around our buildings. Our Public
 Realm Strategy supports the development of an effectively integrated campus, signalling our
 openness to the city.

 Many of LSE’s facilities are available to the public and wider academic community. LSE Library
 has over 12,000 registered external users and participates in the SCONUL Access scheme,
 making its resources available for cross-use. Our ‘SafePod’ will be available to the wider
 research community as part of the Library’s national research role. The Behavioural Research
 Lab is open to external researchers and commercial organisations and has hosted projects with
 outside groups.

 LSE is committed to building a truly inclusive university and works to develop a supportive
 culture in which people feel confident to disclose a disability. The Estates Division consult with
 disabled people through regular meetings of the Network of Disabled Staff and Students and the
 national register of access consultants to improve accessibility to services and activities. They
 have partnered with AccessAble to provide fine-grained pan-disability access guides to LSE
 buildings and good practice guides that inform estates developments. LSE is a member of the
 Business Disability Forum and has a disability helpline.

 The Research Committee monitors the gender distribution of grants received and applications
 made to peer-reviewed funding sources, and the Research Development Panel produces
 reports on the effects of disability, ethnicity and gender on proposal submission and grant
 holding.




                                                                                            Page 10
