Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


  Institution: University of Stirling


1. Context and mission

    The University of Stirling is a globally significant centre of interdisciplinary research,
    located in Scotland and impacting societies worldwide. Our research focuses on making
    a difference to society, people's lives and the environment. Lord Robbins, our first
    Chancellor, championed the nurturing of skilled people and the application of their
    research expertise as critical components of building societal wealth and wellbeing. Since
    its foundation in 1967, Stirling has built upon these purposeful objectives, and they
    continue to guide us in an increasingly turbulent world. The strategic objectives of the
    University are rooted in our values. We strive to unlock the potential of our 14,000 students
    (3,800 postgraduates) and 1,500 staff, leveraging their knowledge and skills to shape the
    world in a positive way. The University is an international organisation: 20% of our
    students are from overseas and more than 120 nationalities are represented in our staff
    and student body.

    To achieve our objectives, we have organised ourselves as a community of scholars
    whose purpose is to create new knowledge, deepen our understanding of the world
    around us, and share our insights at home and abroad. We continually mobilise the
    radical, innovative culture of the University to make a global impact through our research,
    our partnerships, and our 96,000-strong alumni community, providing leadership in
    countries, businesses, and communities across the globe. We communicate what we
    have learned to the wider world via appropriate channels, working in partnership with
    governments, business, and industry, the public and third sectors to identify and meet the
    changing needs of society.

    Exemplars of our actions resulting in purposeful change include our leadership in the fight
    against tobacco-related harm; ensuring the safety of food supply for vulnerable
    communities through sustainable aquaculture (Queen’s Anniversary Prize 2019); and
    working to improve the quality of lives of the millions of people with dementia across the
    world. We are an anchor institution for the Forth Valley Region in central Scotland,
    supporting more than 10,000 jobs, generating £200m of wages and adding £380m to the
    regional economy every year. We lead the innovation workstream of the Stirling and
    Clackmannanshire City Region Growth Deal (2020-2031), securing £46m of direct
    government investment to deliver research with impact through the National Aquaculture
    Technology and Innovation Hub, Scotland’s International Environment Centre, and an
    Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub.

    The University is structured into five faculties: Arts and Humanities; Health Sciences and
    Sport; Natural Sciences; Social Sciences and Stirling Management School. Faculties are
    organised into academic divisions and operate Faculty Research Centres, where the
    scale of activity makes this appropriate. There are three formally established University
    Research Centres: The Institute for Social Marketing and Health; the Nursing, Midwifery
    and Allied Health Professions Research Unit; and the Salvation Army Centre for Addiction
    Services and Research. Additionally, the University’s Dementia Services Development
    Centre enhances dementia care globally through research-based consultancy and
    training. The Innovation Park offers premises and business support to over 70 firms in
    key sectors, supported by the University’s research, and is home to the University’s
    innovation and enterprise programme team.




                                                                                         Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


2. Strategy

    Our 2016-21 University Strategic Plan restates the importance of the original
    underpinnings of our institutional identity in formulating our approach to research
    excellence. Our current Research Strategy, “Research Responding to Society’s Needs”,
    is aligned to the University’s Strategic Plan. It focuses on developing capacity to deliver
    our established interdisciplinary and mission-oriented approach to research that tackles
    real-world problems, identifies creative solutions, and translates them into practice.

    In pursuit of our strategy, research is organised through mission-oriented themes and
    programmes, which are designed to facilitate and nurture interdisciplinary, impactful
    research through co-production and collaboration across the University community.
    These themes and programmes reflect the University’s leading areas of excellence,
    including the wellbeing of ageing populations, the impacts and implications on society of
    the rapidly changing natural world, and the contemporary importance to identity and
    belonging of heritage and our shared connection with the past. They are closely aligned
    with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and foster the collaborations
    required to tackle local and global issues over the long term. Our research themes are:

       Cultures, Communities and Society
        This theme explores social justice at different scales and in varied places, influencing
        the agenda for policy and practice around the globe. Cross-cutting concerns include
        understanding how to: empower communities by enhancing their understanding of
        their cultural past to positively influence their future; providing a safe and secure
        home for every individual; critically challenging the societal changes brought about
        by digital media. The specific research programmes in this theme are: Home, Housing
        and Community; Cultural Heritage; Digital Society and Culture.

       Global Security and Resilience
        This theme has the cross-cutting goal of supporting the delivery of a sustainable and
        secure way of living for the world’s growing population. We pioneer research that
        addresses global hunger, climate change and clean technologies, sustainable
        aquaculture, and environmental protection. The research programmes in this theme
        are: Extreme Events; Environmental Change; Global Food Security; Human Security,
        Conflict and Co-operation; Being Connected.

       Living Well
        This theme focuses on supporting decision makers and institutions to improve well-
        being in a range of local and global contexts; combatting age- and gender-based
        inequalities; and supporting people to maintain, attain or regain good physical and
        mental health. The research programmes in this theme are: Ageing and Dementia;
        Health and Behaviour; Mobile Cognition; Contextual Learning in Humans and
        Machines.

    We are progressively strengthening our priority research themes and programmes in
    pursuit of our core objective of Enhancing Research Excellence. Each programme has
    dedicated academic leadership and a designated Research Development Officer. They
    benefit from direct financial investment to stimulate and accelerate their development.
    They are the primary lens through which we present and communicate our research
    strengths and priorities. By design, our themes and programmes drive impactful,
    collaborative, interdisciplinary and international research.

    Our research strategy includes an explicit focus on ‘Partnership and Communication’ to
    support our commitment to translating research insights into practical solutions. We have


                                                                                        Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    extended and strengthened our research and innovation partnerships with academia,
    industry, business, policymakers, regulatory bodies, health and social care organisations,
    and wider communities. As demonstrated through our impact case studies, Stirling
    researchers have led collaborations delivering transformational impact with a very wide
    range of stakeholders.

    Implementation of our research strategy internationally is principally achieved through
    focusing on a range of institutional partnerships in different parts of the world where we
    have established or are developing relationships, such as UNESP in Sao Paulo region,
    Brazil. The partnerships are managed by dedicated teams that share information and
    intelligence on collaborative research priorities that match our strategic approach. We
    achieve sustainability in these collaborations by broadening and deepening their activities
    through formal arrangements, including dual PhD programmes, staff exchange, and
    tailored pump-priming funding for Global Challenges Research Fund projects. Our global
    alumni network plays a major role in developing and supporting international research
    collaborations with academic institutions, businesses and other organisations worldwide.
    Institutional leadership of research has been significantly strengthened during the
    assessment period. Under the overarching leadership of the Deputy Principal for
    Research, new positions - Dean for Research Engagement and Performance and Dean
    of the Institute for Advanced Studies - have been created to lead deeper research
    collaboration across the University. Each Faculty has an Associate Dean for Research,
    supported by a Director of Postgraduate Research, and Impact Champions. The
    University’s Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion works directly with the research
    leadership team to promote diversity in research careers. A Research Environment Group
    has been established under the University Research Committee, with a specific
    responsibility for research culture, sustainability and enhancing the support available for
    researchers across the institution.

    As a key strategic objective, the profile of the University’s research and impact has been
    enhanced significantly over the assessment period. Recognising our responsibilities to
    contribute to informed public debate, we have deliberately targeted promotion of research
    outcomes and impacts to non-academic audiences, working in partnership with The
    Conversation to promote media access to our research. Our research outputs have been
    featured in more than 9,000 news stories across 72 countries, while our work is cited in
    almost 2,000 policy documents in 22 countries. We have increased total Altmetric
    mentions from 5,762 in 2014 to 35,286 in 2019. To facilitate interaction with policymakers,
    we introduced a Public Policy Hub in April 2019. The Hub holds a growing library of
    research-based policy briefings, permanently available for use by policymakers and other
    stakeholders. The policy briefing documents have been downloaded more than 5,000
    times, while the blog provides research-based commentary across a range of topical and
    emerging policy debates. The University is also engaged with the Universities Policy
    Engagement Network (UPEN) and Scottish Policy and Research Exchange (SPRE),
    providing increasing opportunities for collaboration with policymakers in the UK’s
    parliaments and governments.

    Research Integrity

    The University is committed to the highest ethical standards in research and has signed
    the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. We actively promote a culture of best
    practice and integrity in all our research through the core values of honesty, rigour, open
    communication, care, and respect. To safeguard the interests of researchers, participants
    and funding bodies, research within the University only proceeds after detailed scrutiny
    by one of our three internal Research Ethics Panels. The Animal Welfare and Ethical
    Review Body examines all research involving animals and the NHS, Invasive or Clinical
    Research panel considers health-related projects and physical interventions involving

                                                                                       Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    human subjects. All other projects are considered by the General University Ethics Panel.
    All three panels have an external lay chair, operate independently of research
    management in the University, are subject to audit by the University’s internal auditors,
    and are overseen by the University Research Ethics Committee, which reports to the
    University Court. Where appropriate, ethical scrutiny is also sought from external bodies
    including the NHS Research Ethics Service.

    The University subscribes to the UK Research Integrity Office and is a member of the
    Scottish Research Integrity Network. The University’s culture of research integrity is
    supported by an institutional Research Integrity and Governance Manager, based within
    Research and Innovation Services. Dedicated training is available to all staff and students,
    covering peer review, ethical approval, plagiarism, authorship, and collaborative research.
    A full range of web-based briefing and reference materials are also available. In 2020, the
    University completed implementation of an online Ethics Review Manager system to
    support researchers in seeking ethics approval while enhancing best practice in research
    integrity.

    Open Research

    The University of Stirling pioneered open access to research through the establishment
    in 2008 of STORRE, our online repository of research outputs (including doctoral theses)
    and DataSTORRE, our online repository of research datasets. We support the Concordat
    on Open Research Data and the UK Research and Innovation principles on open
    research. The University also ensures research data is GDPR-compliant. We continue to
    support an ambitious open research publishing programme and are committed to
    strengthening access via the green and gold routes. Our Article Processing Charge Fund
    supports the costs of publishing research papers funded by Research Council grants and
    open access publishing via the gold route. Funding is granted automatically upon
    application from any primary author publishing in a fully open access journal.

    The University has signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
    (DORA) and established a working group to develop a fair and transparent mechanism
    for monitoring and reporting research performance. This will be applied to staff
    recruitment and appraisal of research performance.

3. People

    The opening paragraph of our Strategic Plan 2016-21 states that:

    “Our aim is to unlock the full potential of our students and staff, so that they can use their
    knowledge and skills to shape the world in a positive way.”

    The wellbeing of our scholarly community is central to the University’s mission and values;
    we strive to create an environment where everyone is treated with respect, their abilities
    are valued, and where support is provided for those staff and students with specific needs.
    Researcher development is facilitated by the University’s “Achieving Success”
    programme that, through structured annual discussions, enables academic staff and their
    line manager to review and plan future research, impact and teaching activities. The
    process produces an agreed set of priorities and objectives, with an individual programme
    of development and training designed to support their attainment. Achieving Success
    facilitates progress towards promotion for researchers. Research planning and
    development is further supported by the University’s Academic Staff Research Leave
    scheme, through which researchers can apply for a semester’s research leave every three
    years.


                                                                                          Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    The University’s Researcher Development Programme is designed to meet the generic,
    personal and professional development needs of researchers. The programme maps to
    the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and follows the principles contained in the
    Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
    Throughout the assessment period, the University has enhanced support for our research
    community through the following initiatives:

    Institute for Advanced Studies

    The Institute for Advanced Studies delivers the University’s Researcher Development
    Programme. It provides cohesion and depth to the quality of postgraduate research (PGR)
    support and promotes development and collaboration across the research community.
    Specific support for postgraduate research (PGR) students, whether embarking on a
    research career or preparing for a non-academic position, includes:

       A full programme of Researcher Development and Skills Training.
       Maximising opportunities for cross-disciplinary research, practice and social
        interaction (for example, through Pint of Science events) outside of their main area
        of study.
       A PGR-instigated Interdisciplinarity Research Network
       Focusing on identifying new, innovative research opportunities across disciplines by
        engaging with staff including via the Supervising Doctoral Studies programme.
       Enhanced policies and practices through the institutional Code of Practice for
        Research Degrees and Staff-Student Concordat for PGRs.
       Deepening and widening the range of research development and training
        opportunities to create the innovative “CPD4PhD”, a rounded portfolio of activities
        students can undertake throughout their doctoral career alongside their thesis. On
        completion of the programme, students will receive a PGCert in Professional
        Practice alongside their doctoral degree.

    The Institute also offers an open programme of enhanced skills training and development
    opportunities for research staff. This includes:

       Individual induction and training plans, allowing researchers to select the training
        which most benefits their own professional development.
       The Stirling Crucible programme of three two-day residential “skills labs” designed
        to help researchers innovate in research while building collaborations with their
        peers from different disciplines and non-academic organisations.
       Dedicated events for mid-career researchers leveraging collaborations with
        government and industry.
       A development programme to facilitate the progression to leadership roles.
       Advanced Study Groups – dedicated time for short-life, cross-faculty groups to
        pursue a targeted research objective.
       Fellowships for visiting researchers to stimulate new cross-disciplinary
        perspectives.

    Research Environment Group

    The University has enhanced researcher support with the establishment of a Research
    Environment Group (REG), reporting directly to the University Research Committee. The
    REG proactively engages with our research community to gather ideas on how the
    University can improve its research environment - and build them into its ongoing
    programme of researcher support. The REG oversees implementation of the University’s


                                                                                      Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    action plan under the HR Excellence in Research Award (which was renewed in 2019)
    and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
    The University’s progress in enhancing the research environment has been measured by
    the REG through the biennial Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS) and Principal
    Investigators and Research Leaders Survey (PIRLS). Staff responding to the surveys
    have consistently reported that their contributions have been valued across a range of
    research activity, and that they have felt integrated with the research community at
    divisional and institutional level and supported in their personal and career development.
    All feedback is discussed at the REG with actions proposed in response. Further
    engagement and feedback is communicated weekly through an online Research
    Environment Digest.

    Festival of Research

    Launched in 2018, we celebrate our research through an annual Festival of Research: a
    week-long intensive series of events showcasing the innovative research at the
    University, and a mixed programme of workshops, award ceremonies, plenary and panel
    sessions including public lectures involving a range of external presenters, funders, and
    partners to stimulate new ideas and strengthen our research culture. The Festival
    promotes new interdisciplinary collaborations across and beyond the University. It forms
    a key element in our year-round researcher development programme. The Festival is
    complemented by a series of ‘Mini Festival’ sessions throughout the year on subjects
    including ethics and research integrity.

    Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

    The University is committed to ensuring that no individual is disadvantaged as a
    consequence of their age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership,
    pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation. We aim to
    promote a culture inclusive of all sections of society which is free from discrimination and
    unfair treatment.

    As well as being documented in our Strategic Plan, the University’s commitment to
    equality is reflected in the institutional Equality Outcomes 2017-2021; our Gender Action
    Plan, produced in line with guidance from the Scottish Funding Council; and in our
    commitment to the Athena SWAN Charter.

    The University has an Athena SWAN Bronze award. We have also received Bronze
    awards for the Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport, the Division of Biological and
    Environmental Sciences (Faculty of Natural Sciences), the Faculty of Social Sciences,
    and the Institute of Aquaculture (Faculty of Natural Sciences).

    All faculties and professional service areas have designated Equality Champions who
    take forward the equality and diversity agenda in their area. They form the Equality Action
    Forum - chaired by the Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion - which helps raise
    awareness and promote best practice across the institution as well as overseeing and
    monitoring the implementation of the University’s strategy for equality and diversity
    (equality outcomes) and ensuring compliance with statutory equality duties. An equality
    impact assessment is undertaken on all policies and strategies developed in the
    University.

    The University offers a wide range of EDI, dignity and wellbeing programmes including:

       Equality and Diversity and Tackling Gender Based Violence training.


                                                                                        Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


       A Walking Wellbeing Programme, which combines information with practical
        activities.
       Mental health training and support, including a Mental Health First Aid programme
       An Employee Assistance Programme, including out-of-hours counselling and mental
        health support.
       A zero-tolerance approach to bullying and harassment, backed by a new dignity at
        work and study policy.
       Tailored support for female staff, including a two-day personal and professional
        development programme (Stepping Stones), promotion training, and a Women in
        Leadership development programme.
       The national Aurora women’s leadership programme - in which the University has
        participated for more than 10 years, with 121 women having successfully
        graduated. A five-year participant review identified that 76% of participants had
        successfully achieved promotion or a progressive career change since undertaking
        the programme.
       Unconscious Bias training for key staff in senior management positions as well as
        individual staff who may be involved with areas including academic promotions,
        Athena SWAN, REF2021 preparations.

    The University has sector-leading representation of female leaders as Deans of Faculty.
    Four out of our five faculties - including both that fall under the Science, Technology,
    Engineering, Maths and Medicine (STEMM) umbrella - have been led by women during
    the assessment period. In addition, 51% of Faculty Executive members are women, and
    50% of University Court members are women, a rise from 44% in 2017/18. Several staff
    and student-run groups demonstrate the culture of inclusion and embeddedness of
    equality and diversity activity. These include an LGBTQ+ staff-led support network,
    comprising academic and professional support staff who identify as LGBTQ+. Our
    Women in STEM society runs activities and workshops, for and led by staff members,
    such as the “20 women in 2020” social media campaign that shared the experiences of
    20 role models from across the university at different career stages.

    To support staff with caring responsibilities, a flexible working scheme is offered by the
    University for all staff with a minimum 26 weeks’ continuous service. For academic staff
    returning from maternity or adoption leave, their return to work is facilitated through buyout
    of teaching commitments for a period of six months, to enable research development. Our
    campus is highly accessible for people with disabilities and tailored support is provided
    for researchers with additional needs.

    The University has a low population of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff -
    slightly lower than the Scottish benchmarks National Census (2011) - with an average 5%
    of employees identifying as BAME (51% of which are male and 49% are females). The
    University is developing a new anti-racism and racial equality strategy, and developing an
    array of resources designed to raise awareness of black history and culture and the
    contributions of black people to our university and wider society, and encourage
    discussions about race, racism and tackling racial injustice.

4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Research Grants and Contracts

  We regard external research funding as a key enabler of our research activity and capacity,
  and therefore continue to pursue a trajectory of growth in research grant and contract
  income. We have, in the assessment period, transformed our approach to research funding


                                                                                          Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


  and have deliberately pursued a strategy of applying for large-scale, mission-oriented,
  interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary grants. This approach has borne fruit; the value of our
  research applications has increased over the assessment period by 116%, from a base
  £43.6 million in 15/16 to £94.1m in 19/20. The value of research grant and contract awards
  has grown throughout the period of our Strategic Plan, from £8.8m in 2016/17 to £16m in
  2019-20. We expect further significant growth in 20/21: as of January 2021, we have
  already exceeded the £16m total of the previous year and have confidence that we will
  achieve £23m by the end of the academic year.

  Professional Services

  Research and Innovation Services (RIS) is focused on directly supporting the University's
  strategic objectives in all areas of research and innovation and has a broad range of
  expertise with many staff holding doctorates. In addition, other professional services
  provide specialist support for key areas of activity, including library and information
  systems, research finance, research laboratories and other facilities, human resources and
  organisational development.

  In RIS, the Research Development and Performance Team supports: the development of
  research activities, from small developmental funding for early career researchers, to large-
  scale programme funding applications; the establishment of related networks externally;
  postgraduate research opportunities and researcher development. They support the priority
  themes and programmes with dedicated Research Development Officers. The Research
  Integrity and Governance Team leads on ensuring that all activity meets the highest ethical
  standards through appropriate policy, procedures and support for expert review. The
  Contracts Team leads on the provision of support for the contractual elements of research
  and innovation funding, intellectual property considerations, partnerships and
  collaborations. The Research Systems Team oversees all information systems used in
  supporting the research lifecycle. These include the Worktribe Research Management
  System, the Ethics Review Manager system and all web-based support resources in the
  University Research Toolkit. Preparations for the University's submission to the Research
  Excellence Framework are coordinated through the Research Assessment and Impact
  Team. The Innovation and Enterprise Team leads on the support for commercial aspects
  of our research and our enterprise agenda, including delivering an Enterprise Programme
  for those who are interested in developing innovative ideas, start-ups and skills to engage
  in enterprise activity and connecting with a range of knowledge exchange activities
  including Interface, which promotes academic business links across Scotland, and the
  UKRI Knowledge Transfer Partnership scheme. The University’s City Region and Growth
  Deal programme is delivered through the Innovation and Enterprise team.

  Research Investment Fund

  Competitive internal research funding schemes – Connect, Connect+, Spark, and Escalator
  - are provided by the University and are available to all academic staff to support the
  development of project applications. The awards range from £5,000 to £20,000 of direct
  costs, depending on the scheme applied for. Connect supports discussion and exchange
  of ideas and facilitates interactions between researchers and stakeholders; while Connect+
  builds on Connect, supporting meetings and/or workshops to consolidate relationships and
  collaborations and facilitate funding applications. Spark provides pump-priming for
  research projects where these may lead to larger funding applications. Escalator provides
  additional funding to support the implementation of research findings and escalate the
  impact and delivery aspects of projects.




                                                                                         Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


  Research Facilities

  The University provides a full range of research facilities, laboratories, information
  resources, and equipment. These include a number of distinctive elements:

    a unique research-led kindergarten for developmental psychology work;
    large-scale research aquaria including the UK’s largest marine aquaculture research
     facility at Machrihanish in Kintyre;
    a tropical ecology field station in Lope National Park, Gabon;
    the Iris Murdoch Building, a global exemplar of dementia architecture and design, which
     houses the Dementia Services Development Centre;
    a fully-accredited environmental radioactivity laboratory;
    an extensive art collection and major creative industries archives.

  Research infrastructure is being enhanced through two major renovation projects, with
  £41.7m invested in a new campus central hub and improved sports facilities. The entire top
  floor of Campus Central - which is transforming the heart of the campus, and will open in
  late 2021 - is dedicated to promoting interdisciplinary research, as the home for the Institute
  for Advanced Studies. This will provide 1,000m² of new social and research collaboration
  spaces, with state-of-the-art technology, informal space to network and showcase our
  research to the public. Campus Central builds on the successful redevelopment of the
  University Library, with major improvements to accessing the University archives and
  special collections. As Scotland’s University for Sporting Excellence and the UK Sports
  University of the Year 2020 (The Times and The Sunday Times Good University Guide),
  our newly-completed £20 million sports complex provides state-of the-art studios and
  fitness suites which are available to support the work of our health and sport researchers.
  The £46m of investment secured through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region
  Growth Deal will deliver further major enhancements to the University’s research
  infrastructure for environmental sciences, aquaculture and food security, and ageing and
  dementia. In the period 2021-2030, we will deliver the National Aquaculture Technology
  and Innovation Hub, Scotland’s International Environment Centre, and an Intergenerational
  Living Innovation Hub, all facilities of national and international importance. These facilities
  will enable cutting-edge environmental projects, digital innovation, technological and design
  solutions for health and social care, and support the transition to sustainable, resilient
  businesses and communities. The City Region Deal investment is expected to leverage a
  research and innovation programme in excess of £109m over the next decade.

  The University is committed to achieving sustainability in all of our operations, including the
  development and use of research infrastructure on and off campus. We are signatories to
  the Global Climate Letter for Universities and Colleges, committing the institution to reach
  net zero.




                                                                                          Page 9
