Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Buckinghamshire New University

 1. Context and mission
 1.1. Buckinghamshire New University (BNU) was founded in 1891 as the School of Science
      and Art and acquired University title in 2007.
 1.2. We maintain a strong teaching focus, offering inspiring, employment- and profession-
      focused education, enabling people positively to impact society and their future.
 1.3. Our principal campus is in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire. We have three satellite
      campuses: in Buckinghamshire (Aylesbury; Pinewood Studios) and Hillingdon, London
      (Uxbridge).
 1.4. In 2019/20, academic staff numbered 274, out of a total of 586 staff. Student enrolments
      numbered 5,353 FTE across arts, business, social science, health and technology
      subjects.
 1.5. Since 2014, BNU has had three Vice-Chancellors and three University strategies. Each
      strategy consolidates and builds on its predecessor, placing increasing strategic
      importance on research and impact.
 1.6. During 2016/17 to 2018/19 BNU reported successive annual deficits and a transformation
      programme was implemented. This included a voluntary severance programme which
      temporarily elevated levels of staff turnover, including the departure of some established
      researchers.
 1.7. Prior to 2018 academic staff had been hierarchically organised into fourteen Departments,
      four Schools and two Faculties. To build sustainability and critical mass, and promote
      synergies between cognate subjects, these were reorganised into a flat structure of seven
      Schools:
            •    Art, Design and Performance
            •    Aviation and Security
            •    Business, Law and Computing
            •    Health Care and Social Work
            •    Human and Social Sciences
            •    Media and Creative Industries
            •    Nursing and Allied Health
 1.8. Technical staff were also reorganised during 2018 into a central directorate to better
      support staff development and enhance support for education, research and impact.
 1.9. In 2018/19, BNU developed its current strategy, Impact 2022, to continue the work of
      transformation and establish the foundations for future growth. Oriented around two core
      purposes, Education and Research and Knowledge Exchange, it aims to ensure the
      continuing vitality and long-term sustainability of our research.
 1.10. Under Impact 2022 we have grown our student intake and returned to surplus in 2019/20
 1.11. We have newly established Professorial appointments and introduced infrastructure to
       support research, including the Bucks Academic Framework, an active Professoriate
       forum, and a new Institute of Health and Social Care.
 1.12. Impact 2022 recognises that education will remain the University’s principal income-
       generating activity, representing 83% of our income in the 2019/20 TRAC return with other
       income generation, including enterprise, 16%. Research represented 1% of income but 6%
       of cost, reflecting the strategic priority we attach to research and impact excellence. All
       academic staff engage with education; 30% are on a career pathway also defined by
       research; the remainder on pathways defined by professional practice.



                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 1.13. We are members of UUK, GuildHE and the GuildHE Research consortium and actively
       contribute to and gain benefit from local and regional partnerships.
 1.14. In 2019 we co-founded the innovative multi-partner Bucks Health and Social Care
       Academy and created a new LEP-funded partnership with Pinewood Studios. We are
       actively engaged with Buckinghamshire LEP, South East Midlands LEP, Heathrow Skills
       Partnership, and the Buckinghamshire Council.
 1.15. In 2019 BNU joined with other Universities in founding the Oxford-Cambridge Arc
       Universities Group (AUG), intended to support economic growth through learning,
       research and innovation, and are actively engaged with the AUG’s Environment and
       Sustainable Aviation Partnership Boards.
 1.16. We are actively engaged in the Oxford Academic Health Sciences Network (OAHSN) and
       Imperial College Health Partners (ICHP) leading to initiatives such as our ERDF-funded
       Health and Social Care Ventures programme and the MedTech SuperConnector
       programme
 1.17. Since REF 2014, we have increased the number of researchers included in the submission
       by c. 25% and increased the number of UoA submissions from 4 to 6.
 1.18. We have continued to develop strength in previous UoA submissions: Allied Health
       Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy (3), Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure
       and Tourism (24), and Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory (32).
 1.19. We have drawn on these strengths to successfully incubate additional clusters of research
       and impact, leading to new submissions under Earth Systems and Environmental
       Sciences (7), Social Work and Social Policy (20), and Education (23).
 1.20. Given the relatively small size of our research group in Business and Management Studies
       (17), the departure of three researchers means we are not submitting under this UoA.

 2. Strategy
 2.1   Our strategy has been to develop excellence in research and impact across our
       disciplines, incubate nascent themes, and ensure research and enterprise support our
       educational focus.
 2.2   For this REF period, the University has pursued four key strategic goals to:
               a)   increase the volume and quality of research and impact;
               b)   maintain research and enterprise income;
               c)   ensure research and enterprise activity enriches the student experience; and
               d)   secure improved external recognition for the impact of our research and
                    enterprise.
 2.3   We believe we have been successful in pursuing these goals:
               a) In REF 2014, c. 7% of academic staff were submitted in four UoAs. Following an
                  incubation strategy supported by staff development, we are now submitting c.
                  14% of academic staff in six UoAs. Our assessment of the quality of our
                  research has also markedly increased; indicative reviewer ratings of outputs for
                  submission in 2021 achieved 89% at 3* or 4*, compared to 39% in REF2014.
               b) We have maintained our level of research income in the region of £0.5-£1.0m pa
                  across the REF period, while focused on initiatives that we believe will lead to
                  increased income in the next 5 years, including ECR development, internal seed
                  funding and staff recruitment.
               c) Our commitment to support professional workforce development and widening
                  participation in HE has directly impacted students, both at BNU and beyond, and
                  underpins a new submission in Education (23). Our support for this area will
                  grow, reflecting its prioritisation by many of our ECRs and new researchers.


                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            d) A key example of impact achieved is the selection of the Birth-Satisfaction-
               Scale-Revised (BSS-R) as the ‘gold standard’ measure of birth experience by
               the International Consortium for Health Outcome Measures (ICHOM) Standard
               Set for Pregnancy and Childbirth. Widely translated and in use in over 30
               countries, the BSS-R has been utilised by both researchers and clinicians alike
               in over 100 investigations worldwide.
 2.4   For the next 5 years the University’s strategy is to pursue research and innovation that
       impacts and enhances lives and society, enriches our inclusive learning community, and
       helps us reach out to the public, our communities, and key strategic partners.
 2.5   We aim to
            •    Establish impact centres to provide critical mass, develop senior research
                 leadership, promote interdisciplinarity, focus institutional support, and enhance
                 alignment with target communities, and local, national and global priorities
            •    Increase the volume and quality of our research and impact through support for
                 existing areas of excellence, and incubating nascent themes, including under
                 UoA 17 and UoA 33
            •    Develop numbers of and support for research students
            •    Increase research and enterprise income
            •    Secure Research Degree Awarding Powers
            •    Build public and stakeholder engagement with our research and impact
            •    Develop the number and significance of external research and enterprise
                 partnerships to maximise access to funding, support knowledge exchange and
                 research
            •    Develop synergies between research, curriculum and teaching to support future
                 TEF, KEF and REF submissions
 2.6   Staff are supported financially and with allocated time to disseminate research within both
       academic and professional practice forums.
 2.7   The professional focus of BNU research means that a wider contribution to the economy
       and to society is often inherent in the research process. For example, NHS-funded nursing
       research has enabled immediate uptake of outcomes for service delivery improvement,
       e.g., our evaluation of the Whole systems integrated care model in NW London, funded by
       the West London CCG. BNU has significant impact on regional disability sports providers,
       underpinned by our expertise and research in elite sport and our status as a Talented
       Athletes Scholarship Scheme (TASS) provider since 2017, funded by the government
       Sport Aid programme.
 2.8   Our engagement with professions and employers such as Thames Valley Police, Thames
       Water, NHS Trusts and others, has enabled BNU to be among the first Universities to
       develop higher and degree apprenticeships in 2015, supporting regional economic skills,
       productivity and growth.
 2.9   BNU hosts archives of national and international importance. The digital High Wycombe
       Furniture Archive, developed with AHRC funding in 2006, provides an international
       research resource containing photographic and print material relating to
       Buckinghamshire’s unique heritage within furniture-design and manufacture. Our National
       Disability Arts Collection and Archive (NDACA) is a unique UK and possibly global
       research resource.
 Open research
 2.10 BNU has held a research repository since 2006, and our open access policy (2015)
      outlines our commitment to:
            •    Provide greater visibility for BNU research, benefitting audiences of researchers,
                 practitioners, and the public;


                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
             •   Ensure long term preservation of outputs;
             •   Stimulate new research opportunities and collaborations;
             •   Enable compliance with funders’ requirements; and
             •   Enable the University to submit to future REFs.
 2.11 The University has adopted the Green route to open access as a sustainable approach.
      Staff are encouraged to upload all outputs including conference presentations, videos and
      original performance pieces to the repository to enhance public access for their research
      and improve impact.
 2.12 BNU participated in the JISC open-data pilot project through GuildHE Research and will
      explore options to enable sustainable open data sharing through this affiliation.
 Regional and national research priorities
 2.13 We engage with regional and national priorities for economic regeneration, productivity
      and growth through the Buckinghamshire and South East Midlands LEPs. Our innovative
      partnership with Pinewood Studios in support of the creative industries aligns directly with
      the Buckinghamshire Local Industrial Strategy, as does our LEP-supported Bucks Health
      and Social Care Academy. Our research and impact on the environment and sustainable
      aviation align closely with the work of the AUG.
 2.14 Consistent with our values, we also align our research and impact with the UN Sustainable
      Development Goals (SDGs), specifically:
             •   SDG 4 (Quality Education).
             •   SDG 3 (Good Health and Wellbeing).
             •   SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation).
             •   SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities)
             •   SDG 13 (Climate Action)
 Interdisciplinary research
 2.15 BNU’s focus on employment and professions naturally supports synergies between
      different disciplinary research areas, facilitated by centralised research support services.
 2.16 Activities undertaken during the period have included cross-disciplinary innovative
      teaching initiatives (e.g., linking performing arts and nursing; computing and art and design
      funded by HEFCE). BNU is also part of an OfS-funded multi-partner project regarding
      student mental health delivered by a multi-disciplinary team.
 Research integrity
 2.17 The University’s Research and Enterprise committee, a Senate sub-committee, has
      oversight of all institutional research activity, including research degrees. It has
      responsibility for ensuring adherence with our Code of Good Research Practice and
      Research Ethics policies.
 2.18 The Committee collates data annually for our compliance statement on the Concordat to
      Support Research Integrity and investigates any reports of research misconduct. The
      University Research Ethics Panel has a wide membership from across the university, with
      oversight of school sub-committees which review student research. BNU subscribes to the
      UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) and has completed the UKRIO self-assessment
      exercise during the REF period.
 Collaborations, networks, partnerships and community engagement
 2.19 BNU actively supports the development of research collaborations, networks and
      partnerships. During the REF period, we have supported three joint Professorial
      appointments, two with Imperial College NHS Foundation Trust and one with West London
      Mental Health NHS Trust. These were instrumental in developing collaborative research



                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       between BNU and the NHS, for example, leading to development of the birth satisfaction
       scale and enhancing dignity in acute care.
 2.20 Staff are supported to engage with academic and professional networks and can use BNU
      facilities to host events and meetings. BNU’s partnerships, such as the OAHSN, ICHP,
      GuildHE and the AUG, facilitate participation in collaborative networks and access to
      funding, e.g., Research England Development Fund.
 2.21 The newly established Professoriate will play a leading role in the intellectual life of the
      University and in building public and community engagement. Initial events are planned for
      researchers and stakeholders on aviation sustainability and public lectures on health and
      wellbeing, aligned with the new Institute of Health and Social Care.
 2.22 During the REF period, heritage initiatives have engaged the local community through a
      National Lottery Heritage funding partnership with the Chilterns Conservation Board.
 2.23 Stakeholder engagement is at the core of our action research, exploring healthcare
      improvements and experiences of marginalised communities. For example, research
      undertaken regarding the health and wellbeing of GRT communities’ proceeds in
      partnership with charities and NGOs, ensuring populations are an integral part of the
      research process.

 3. People
 3.1   Our strategy, Impact 2022, aims to create a high-performance workplace culture, built
       around diversity and staff development, building strength and sustainability through
       developing staff who are, or aspire to be, research active.
 3.2   Of the 34 staff returned in REF 2021, 23 were employed by BNU at the REF 2014 census
       date. Only 7 of these were returned under REF 2014. The inclusion of the remaining 16 in
       REF 2021 demonstrates their effective development in the intervening period.
 3.3   In 2019 we introduced the Bucks Academic Framework (BAF) in part to create a
       sustainable research culture (Figure 1) by giving greater recognition of and clarity to the
       diversity of academic roles. The BAF identifies four career pathways, articulating
       movement between them, and progression from Lecturer to Professor for each:
             •    Education with Research
             •    Research with Education
             •    Education with Professional Practice
             •    Professional Practice with Education




 Figure 1: Defining the theme of Research and Enterprise within the BAF.



                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 3.4   The BAF underpins our definition of staff with significant responsibility for research, as
       outlined in our Code of Practice, and was used to make professorial promotions in 2020,
       creating three full professors in aviation, sport psychology and art and design, and four
       associate professors in psychology, computing, engineering and media.
 Staff Development
 3.5   BNU uses the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
       Researchers to underpin staff development for all academic staff. Our commitment to staff
       development is reflected in our Learning and Development Policy and supported by
       centralised funding.
 3.6   Over 30 academic staff have been supported, financially and with adjusted workload, to
       undertake a research degree during the REF period.
 3.7   University career break and sabbatical policies are in place, for staff to manage personal
       circumstances or for dedicated scholarly activity.
 3.8   All staff undergo annual Professional Development Reviews with their line manager, where
       achievements can be recognised and learning needs identified, mapped to their academic
       framework track.
 3.9   BNU offers staff a Professional Academic apprenticeship, designed to develop the
       knowledge, skills and behaviours of academic professionals working within higher
       education.
 3.10 Many of our staff are early in their research careers having moved from professional
      practice roles. Approximately 25% of staff have a doctoral level qualification and 9% of
      academic staff are designated as ECRs in the 19-20 HESA return, in their first academic
      research post since achieving their doctorate.
 3.11 All researcher development opportunities available to research students (see below) are
      available to staff. Additional ECR-focused activities include research funding, grant camps,
      project management, getting published and being an entrepreneurial academic. Staff are
      supported to attend external sector events (e.g., UKRIO).
 3.12 Staff have access to research supervisor training through Staffordshire University and
      Epigeum’s online suite, and workshops led by the UK Council for Graduate Education.
 3.13 Staff on fixed-term, research-only contracts (n ≤ 5 during the REF period) are eligible for all
      development opportunities open to other staff and PGR students, including funding for
      professional development and conference attendance.

 Research Students
 3.14 Our cohort of research students is diverse: compared to sector averages in PRES 2020,
      88% of BNU students are over 31 (vs 47%) and more study part-time (80% vs 23%).
 3.15 Enhancing the research culture for PGR students has been a key focus during the REF
      period, with student satisfaction rising as evidenced in PRES2020: 85% of BNU students
      are satisfied with their programme, 5% above benchmark.
 3.16 All students have access to a range of online learning. This includes Epigeum’s online
      research toolkit (with modules on methods, transferable skills, ethics and integrity) and
      from 2019, the UEA PGR online programme, covering methods, academic writing,
      teaching skills and completing a Doctorate. Monthly newssheets are disseminated,
      summarising local and external events and opportunities.
 3.17 Students are encouraged to disseminate their research with dedicated conferences held
      several times annually. During the REF period students have presented at national and
      International conferences funded by BNU, e.g., the European College of Sport Science



                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
      and the International Nursing Research Conference. Students are also encouraged to
      publish in conference proceedings, journals and our Research notes newsletter.
 3.18 GuildHE Research provides additional development and networking opportunities for both
      students and staff, including a 2-day annual summer school, academic writing month and a
      Virtual Doctoral Training Network.
 3.19 Students are required to use the Vitae Researcher Development framework planner and
      given individual support for their researcher development plan.
 3.20 Coventry University awarded our research degrees until 2014 and Staffordshire University
      has been our awarding partner from 2016. The period of 18 months without an awarding
      partner impacted student and completion numbers during the REF period. We are
      undertaking initiatives to grow our cohort of research students (29 as of July 2020) to
      encourage recruitment and increase supervisory capacity through staff development and
      joint supervision teams with Staffordshire University.
 3.21 During the REF period, the University funded three research studentships in sport
      sociology, nursing, and exercise science; Horizon-2020 funding supported two further
      studentships in product design. A newly created Vice-Chancellor’s studentship scheme will
      fully fund up to two studentships per year from 2020-21.
 3.22 We have undertaken work to scope a Graduate School which will be operational from
      2021-22.
 Equality and Diversity
 3.23 BNU is a vibrant, inclusive learning community that strives to create an environment free
      from discrimination, actively celebrating and valuing diversity, committed to the fullest
      equal opportunity. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) underpins our values and
      influences everything we do, with annual action plans led by an EDI working group,
      reporting to a new University-wide EDI committee chaired by the Vice-Chancellor.
 3.24 All staff are required to undertake training on equality and diversity, including unconscious
      bias.
 3.25 BNU is working to develop further accreditations for its EDI work, which include:
            •    Disability Confident Employer accreditation from Jobcentre Plus
            •    Mindful Employer charter signatory
            •    Commitment to Race Equality Charter
            •    Time to Change pledge
            •    “GTRSBintoHE” created by BNU as a sector-wide pledge to support students
                 from Gypsy, Traveller, Roma, Showpeople, and Boater communities
            •    HR Excellence in Research
            •    Member of Advance HE, running the Aurora programme for women’s leadership
                 development in HE
            •    Technician Commitment
 3.26 Our Gender Pay Gap Action Plan continuously seeks improvement. BNU’s gender pay gap
      improved between 2018 and 2019, the mean decreasing 0.3% to 10.3% (vs 14.9% for the
      HE sector), and the median decreasing 6.1% to 4.7%.
 3.27 Research support and facilities are open equally to all staff, irrespective of circumstances,
      contract hours and periods of absence. Our provision of flexible development resources
      widens access to part-time staff and staff who cannot always be on-site. Accessing of such
      resources has increased during COVID-19.
 3.28 We aim to make reasonable adjustments and supply additional support for staff whose
      circumstances may impact their research productivity. In preparing for REF, staff were
      asked confidentially to submit details of any such equality-related circumstances during the
      REF period. No equality-related circumstances requiring consideration were declared.

                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 4.1   BNU supplements QR (c. £225k pa during the REF period) with its own resources to fund
       a centralised Research and Enterprise Development unit (RED), staff research activity,
       and development and dissemination initiatives.
 4.2   Led by the Director of Enterprise and Research, 3.5 FTE staff provide centralised support
       for all University Research and Enterprise activity. RED has institutional responsibility for
       researcher development, the institutional repository, ethical review processes, project
       management and funding bid support, institutional data collection, reporting, governance,
       REF, KEF, business engagement and knowledge exchange.
 4.3   The University has recently appointed a Knowledge Transfer Manager to establish KTPs
       across the University and further enhance research impact.
 4.4   In 2020, BNU created a Professoriate forum to provide a leading role in the intellectual life
       of the University, including building public and community engagement, supporting
       academic and ECR development, and providing leadership for the Graduate School.
 4.5   Academic staff contracts provide dedicated time to undertake research, scholarly,
       enterprise or professional practice activity of up to 550 hours per year. The activities
       undertaken and expected depend on the BAF career pathway.
 4.6   Additional resources and facilities are available through BNU’s membership of the GuildHE
       Research consortium. This provides access to training opportunities, networking and
       partnerships with access to resources through framework agreements (eg e-prints
       repository, Vitae).
 4.7   During the REF period, staff were able to apply for competitive internal funding, to seed
       projects or to support completion of a research degree. Over 4 years, a total of 46 staff
       were supported across all disciplines with a total investment of £319k.
 4.8   To enhance impact from 2017, we introduced centralised funding to support dissemination.
       Thirty-five staff have been supported, for both UK and International events, representing
       an investment of £24.7k. Example include events led by the Association for Applied Sport
       Psychology, Air Transport Research Society and British Psychological Society, in addition
       to professional events such as the Transport Practitioners meeting, World Class Business
       Virtual Reality 2018 and UK Sport Development Network and events led by the Royal
       College of Nursing and Advance HE.
 4.9   In 2019 staff were able to bid for our Strategic Priorities Fund (SPF) allocation. Over half of
       the £50k allocation was used to support impact, e.g., adoption of low-carbon initiatives by
       SMEs, and the GTRSBinotHE pledge.
 4.10 Staff can request support from our Global Challenges Research Fund allocation (c. £12k
      pa). During the REF period, two additional visits were supported to India and Africa,
      enabling doctoral students funded by the H2020 solar water disinfection projects to engage
      product users.
 4.11 Support is also provided through use of facilities and resources for on-site BNU
      dissemination events, including performances and exhibitions. For example, by hosting a
      webinar for providers of disability sport.
 4.12 Established processes are in place to ensure BNU research is rigorous, adheres to our
      Code of Good Research Practice and complies with ethical best practice. Ethical review
      processes and senior research staff also provide a peer-review role in developing research
      protocols, to ensure they are completed with rigour and are reproducible.
 4.13 During the REF period, support for generating research income has focussed on staff
      development along with institutional support to enable staff to apply for schemes which are
      not fully funded, developing their academic profiles. For example, this enabled successful
      participation in a £2.8m bid to the National Lottery Heritage Lottery.



                                                                                                  Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4.14 Over the past 10 years, BNU has invested c. £100m in developing its infrastructure and
      facilities, including our RIBA-award winning Gateway building, housing state-of-the-art
      media production studios, flight simulator, library, sports facilities and a gym. Our
      performance and art exhibition spaces enable public dissemination of practice-based
      outputs, and our audio-visual support team enables creation of digital media.
 4.15 The £1.7m Human Performance, Exercise and Wellbeing Centre, opened in 2016, has a
      three-lane running track with 3D-motion-capture technology, along with a sports injury and
      physiotherapy clinic. It has already become a hub for sports conditioning and treatment in
      the area and is an enabler for impact from performance sport research through links with
      TASS (Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme), WSL Academy (Women’s Super League)
      and Swim England Performance Centres.
 4.16 BNU has c.4,000m2 of specialist art and design facilities including prototype labs, 3D-
      scanning and printing, in addition to dedicated workshops for wood, metal, ceramics,
      mixed media and printmaking supported by expert technical staff. In 2018 we developed
      an industry-based learning environment at Pinewood Studios as a result of a successful
      £1.65m LEP bid.
 4.17 We share resources with other institutions, e.g., our partnership with Queensland
      University of Technology enables access to state-of-the-art Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
      survey technologies and facilities for processing large UAV datasets. Our links with NHS
      Trusts and health partner networks enables access to patient groups and key
      professionals for service improvement and action research.




                                                                                          Page 9
