Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Institution: University of Suffolk

    1. Context and mission

 5a.1.1 Established as a community impact institution in one of the UK’s higher education
 cold spots, the University of Suffolk (UoS) incorporates the best university traditions,
 delivering high-quality higher education that’s fit for the 21st century of employment and
 entrepreneurship. In just a few years, we’ve built a distinctive, thriving academic community
 with incisive research that’s driving positive change across our region.

 Previously University Campus Suffolk, (a partnership between the universities of East
 Anglia and Essex), taught-degree awarding powers were granted by the Privy Council in
 2015, and the University of Suffolk established the county’s first independent university in
 2016. Deeply rooted in the region, our strong partnerships with local colleges is central to
 our success.

 UoS, recognised for widening participation, is ranked third in the country by HESA for the
 proportion of students from low-participation backgrounds – 25% compared to 11% in
 England. We specifically work with Care Leavers, Young Carers, mature students, BAME
 students and students with disabilities and our Access and Participation Plan reflects this.

 Supported by ten Professional Services Departments, our university comprises:
    • four academic schools: School of Health and Sports Sciences; School of Social
       Sciences and Humanities; School of Engineering, Arts, Science and Technology,
       and Suffolk Business School
    • six pan-university dedicated research institutes and centres: Institute for Health
       and Wellbeing; Suffolk Sustainability Institute; Digital Futures Institute; Institute of
       Social Justice and Crime; Centre for Excellence in Learning and Teaching, and
       Centre for History and Heritage
    • an Integrated Care Academy (covering health and social care research within a
       wider remit).




                                                                                          Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 5a.1.2 Based in Ipswich, our academic community is composed of:
    • 3,500 undergraduate students
    • 430 taught post-graduate students
    • 70 post-graduate students
    • 252 academic staff – 39 at Professor, or Associate Professor level
    • 29 (11%) of our academic staff were CAT A eligible on date of census
    • 312 Professional Services Staff.

 With partner organisations London School of Commerce, Global Banking School, Unicaf,
 Unitas and SCITT (see below) we serve a further 7,777 undergraduate and 634 taught
 post-graduate students.

 Governed by the Board of Directors, the executive and senior leadership teams make formal
 decisions, leading our academic and executive governance structures. The Research
 Directorate overseas all research and PGR activity.

 5a.1.3 Reflecting our ambitions to gain research degree awarding powers (RDAP) and
 engage in the Research Excellence Framework for the first time, our research and
 enterprise endeavours have increased significantly. While our PhD community has grown
 to 70, our major investment in research leadership, appointing seven professors in our areas
 of distinctiveness, has established six new research institutes and centres and the Ipswich
 Waterfront Innovation Centre (IWIC). However, as our priority is supporting and widening
 access to HE, teaching (evidenced by TRAC data) remains our main activity (90%).

 Located in one of the UK’s fastest growing economies, UoS has had substantial economic
 impact on the region. However, high levels of deprivation persist. Suffolk is:
    • over-represented in the most deprived 10% for children’s education and accessibility
        to services
    • a rural county, facing significant barriers to economic growth with substantial areas
        of low HE participation. Ipswich, identified as a social mobility cold spot in the Social
        Mobility Index, is one of 12 designated Opportunity Areas, part of the government’s
        national plan for dealing with social mobility through education.

 5a.1.4 Categorised in Cluster M (Research England, 2018), we are a member of Guild HE
 Research. Our Strategy and Vision introduced in 2020 states: “by 2030 we will be
 recognised as an empowering force for individual and community growth and development.
 We will be recognised for the major contribution we are making to the health and wellbeing
 of the people in our region and acknowledged for lasting social and sustainable economic
 transformation”.

 In addition to our partner colleges (Suffolk New College and East Coast College) and our
 Research Degree validating institutions (University of Essex, University of East Anglia and
 University of Brighton), we enjoy several key partnerships for undergraduate and
 postgraduate courses:
     • London School of Commerce – a UoS Associate College, based in London, with
         overseas campuses including Malta and Sri Lanka
     • Global Banking School – a UoS partner institution, operating from four UK
         campuses
     • Unicaf – a UoS global delivery partner, amalgamating resources and capabilities
         from both organisations to offer innovative online programmes including MSc
         Public Health and MBA




                                                                                          Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    •   Unitas and the Youth Justice Board – UoS partner organisations, delivering online
        courses in criminal justice
    •   We have one of the largest School Centred Initial Teacher Training (SCITT) in the
        country.

 5a.1.5 Our growing, vibrant research community has a range of specialist academic
 expertise. The Research and Scholarly Activity Strategy (2018) identified six distinctive
 areas on which our interdisciplinary research institutes and centres are built:
    • Health and Wellbeing
    • Sustainability
    • Digital Futures
    • Crime and Social Justice
    • History and Heritage
    • Excellence in Education.

 Although not in receipt of HEQR funding, we continue to attract considerable funding for
 research (for example, from the Home Office, Ofsted, Comic Relief, The Police Innovation
 Fund, the Royal Academy of Engineering, and Nominet) – in total, £1,867,000 since 2015
 across wide-ranging disciplines that include Nursing and Health, Biosciences, Information
 Technologies, Social Sciences, Education and History.

 Given we have relatively few CAT A eligible staff (<5 FTE) in some areas, we were
 successfully granted exemptions in the following units of assessment in 2019:
    • 2 - Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care (1 FTE)
    • 4 - Biological Sciences (4 FTE)
    • 11 - Computer Sciences and Informatics (1 FTE)
    • 13 - Architecture, Built Environment and Planning (1 FTE)
    • 19 - Politics and International Studies (1FTE)
    • 24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism (3 FTE)
    • 28 - History (1 FTE)
    • 32 - Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory (2 FTE).

 Our remaining CAT A eligible staff (n=15) are being submitted in a single UOA, as our
 emerging research profile develops from being a community impact university (given our
 research initially sought to understand and help solve social problems). Our
 interdisciplinary research centres around welfare – especially in relation to children and
 young people, policy, practice and social justice – providing critical insights in new areas
 of research such as social class, sexuality, special needs and disability, children’s rights
 and migration. Our research in other areas such as Health, Wellbeing, Sustainability and
 Digital is also growing rapidly. We will be making strategic investments in other areas to
 make a more substantial submission to other UOAs in the next REF.

    2. Strategy

 5a.2.1 Our Research and Scholarly Activity Strategy (2018) set out our aims for research
 and institutional KPIs. Since it was introduced, we have delivered a significant development
 programme that has established a sustainable research portfolio, thereby:

    •   Increasing our annual funded research income average to over £400,000
    •   Appointed a Director of Research
    •   Increasing the proportion of staff with significant responsibility for research to 17%
    •   Established a Graduate School and grown our PhD provision to over 70 students in
        2020, while introducing 20 PhD bursaries



                                                                                        Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    •   Providing extensive early career researcher support through a comprehensive
        programme of training and mentoring, gaining the HR Excellence in Research Award
    •   Established six research institutes and centres
    •   Investing in seven professor posts
    •   Introducing the Suffolk Academic Model, and identifying three promotional
        pathways:
            • Category A – Excellence in Research and Scholarly Activity, Learning and
                Teaching, and Knowledge Exchange
            • Category B – Excellence in Learning, Teaching and Assessment, Scholarly
                Activity, Community and Business Engagement
            • Category C – Excellence in Research and Scholarly Activity and Knowledge
                Exchange
    •   Appointing an Associate Dean for Research in academic schools and introducing
        Associate Professor roles
    •   Implementing a Workload Allocation Model to manage dedicated time for research
        and ensured all our CAT A staff are members of a research institute or centre
    •   In collaboration with BT’s Tommy Flower Network, established the DigiTech Centre
        for research, creating new research and teaching labs in Cyber Security, Smart
        Living and Future Networks by attracting £6.4m external capital funding
    •   Established the first UK Integrated Care Academy, with funding from Integrated Care
        System
    •   Developing new, strategic research partnerships with NHS South Norfolk CCG, East
        Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust, the Marie Collins Foundation, Better
        Policing Collaborative, the UK Safer Internet Centre, Sue Ryder Foundation and
        Office for Students.

 5a.2.2 By 2026 we will:
    • significantly strengthen our research governance and scholarly culture with new
        professorial appointments leading research institutes and centres, and new
        research partnerships
    • obtain HEQR funding, enabling us to engage in long-term strategic planning for
        research
    • double our income from externally funded research
    • enjoy a proven track record internationally for high-quality research
    • establish a M-Res programme and achieve RDAP
    • extensively invest in our research environment for workforce planning and
        workload allocation, to achieve a critical mass of CAT A (60%)
    • improve resources to support research, including an interdisciplinary research hub,
        new posts, as well as technology for capturing and recording research activity and
        impact
    • build a substantial submission for the next REF, supporting staff to develop high
        quality research outputs, extensive knowledge exchange activities and impact
        case studies.

 Our partnerships with local public and private sectors underpin our collaborative approach
 to research. Our distinctive areas directly reflect five key sectors for growth identified in the
 New Anglia Local Economic Partnership (NALEP) strategic economic plan and local
 industrial strategy. These priority themes are economy wide opportunities, wherever the
 evidence shows that investment and action will have the greatest impact.

 5a.2.3 In 2019, an independent economic impact report by BiGGAR Economics showed
 that in 2017/18 we generated £103m Gross Value Added and supported 2,270 UK jobs.
 The report identifies how we have been a catalyst for change in the regeneration of Ipswich



                                                                                           Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Waterfront where our campus is based, our support towards delivering key frontline public
 services in health, social work, and education, and our efforts establishing an educational
 institution that is embedded within the local business community and responsive to its
 needs. Our knowledge exchange activities will generate research with impact through these
 collaborations including:
     • IWIC, our £5.8m ICT incubation centre and 3D productivity suite
     • the DigiTech Centre, a £9.8m research and engineering facility
     • The Hold – a flagship heritage archive and community facility
     • the Integrated Care Academy
     • contributing to the taskforce for the region’s post COVID-19 recovery.

 5a.2.4 As an organisation, our approach to research is transparent, collaborative and
 efficient. We encourage and support open access through our open access repository
 (OARS) and so we are:
      • compliant with the Concordat for Open Research Data
      • committed to the Declaration on Research Assessment’s responsible use of metrics,
         and in 2020 implemented a policy for the Use of Metrics in Research
      • adopting the principles in the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research
      • embedding support for activities which foster public engagement with research in all
         our lead strategies.

 5a.2.4 Our research institutes and centres design robust, efficient solutions to real world
 problems, adopting the principles of interdisciplinary work with national governments, local
 authorities, charities and private sector companies. Through the research directorate and
 committee structure, our centralised support for research forges collaborative partnerships
 across the university with academic schools, institutes and centres. Our professoriate
 agrees research priorities, identifies new opportunities for alliances and supports the
 advancement of our research culture. Subsequently, we invite and host external
 researchers and have an active network of visiting research posts.

 We are committed to ensuring our research meets the highest professional and ethical
 standards. The University Ethics Committee is interdisciplinary, with vibrant representation
 from all four Academic Schools as well as lay membership. It is responsible for developing,
 implementing and reviewing our institutional procedures and guidelines. We are compliant
 with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which is well-supported by our Research
 Misconduct policy. Our Research and Enterprise committee and Research Management
 group ensure that our core values of honesty, rigour, transparency, care, respect and
 accountability are firmly upheld.

 Resulting from collaborative work, nearly half of our outputs on OARS have internal,
 external and international co-authorships (48%). Our knowledge exchange activity has
 both increased income and national recognition through the Knowledge Exchange
 Framework, including Continuing Professional Development, work-based learning, scale-
 up and innovation support, and knowledge transfer partnerships. The numerous
 conferences and public engagement events we host cover a wide range of research-
 related topics including: International Sustainable Ecological Engineering Design for
 Society conference; Regenerative Medicine; Dementia Research; PhotoEast; the Maritime
 Festival, and we also host Safer Internet Day each year. Our free, public, open lecture
 series also delivers over 70 lectures to more than 8,000 members of the public.

    3. People

 5a.3.1 The values and professional behaviours that define our culture are detailed in our
 Equality and Diversity Policy and our People Strategy. These include an emphasis on


                                                                                      Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 wellbeing, connected leadership, and supporting career development – for all our staff. We
 are a Disability Confident Employer and part of the Working Families initiative, with flexible
 working, flexible retirement and a suite of family-friendly policies and practices. Our annual
 Staff Wellbeing Audit is insightfully supported by Suffolk Mind, and the university provides
 a comprehensive range of wellbeing resources through SilverCloud (the leading digital
 mental health platform).

 Through wide-ranging consultation with unions and staff, we introduced the Suffolk
 Academic Model in 2018, opening promotion opportunities to all staff (including part-time
 and fixed-term staff). We also initiated a Workload Allocation Model in 2019 that has distinct
 workload allocations and a transparent model of backfill for staff with research projects. Also
 applying to all academic staff, our Support for Staff Academic Study and Continuing
 Professional Development Policy provides 18 days paid development time. All CAT A are
 guaranteed at least a day dedicated each week for research, and academics seeking to
 become CAT A have half a day each week.

 5a.3.2 Our Equality and Diversity Policy outlines our commitment to promoting equality of
 opportunity and equality of access to our services, and how we uphold the principles of
 diversity and inclusion throughout the institution. Our clear governance structures ensure
 leadership, responsibility, accountability and oversight of equality and diversity. This is why
 we are confident that staff are able to progress within the university at all levels, and we
 regularly review and monitor to ensure this. The workforce remains predominantly female
 (64%:36%) as does our student population due to the portfolio of programmes we deliver
 (71%:29%) with PGR (57%:43%).

 All our employment-related policies and procedures reflect our commitment to equality and
 diversity, which helps us to achieve and retain a diverse workforce and PGR community. All
 our staff undertake mandatory Equality and Diversity Training, and all Research Directorate
 and Graduate School staff complete unconscious bias training. Our Equality and Diversity
 Policy promotes the benefits of diversity management. We actively monitor our diversity, as
 well as the effects of related policies and processes (such as recruitment and progression)
 publishing the results annually on our website.

 UoS’ main governance is through the Equality and Diversity Committee, chaired by the
 Director of People and Organisational Development. This is the primary forum for
 management, staff and our recognised trade unions to discuss and make recommendations
 to the senior leadership team and executive on equality, diversity and inclusion.

 The university has established a number of sub forums and groups reflecting the breadth of
 the protected characteristics, including BAME staff, disability and LGBTQI+, as well as other
 groups such as our family and carers group. We are members of the disability confident
 scheme, the Mindful Employer scheme and have been a Top 30 Employer for Working
 Families. We will be making an application for an Athena Swan Award by 2022/2023.

 5a.3.3 Gaining the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2017 and 2019, we have
 consistently demonstrated a continued commitment to developing and supporting our
 research staff. We invested in AdvanceHE’s Research Leadership Training and Research
 Impact Workshops and the Developing Excellence in Research Supervision award from UK
 Council for Graduate Education (UKCGE). We have implemented two bi-annual action
 plans as part of the concordat establishing new support networks for early career
 researchers (ECR) – increasing the number of mentors by 25% and the number of CAT A
 staff facilitating research training sessions to 100%.

 Our training and development opportunities for our staff create personalised learning
 pathways that identify training opportunities relating to each individual’s current or future job


                                                                                           Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 requirements. And these are reviewed through appraisals. Subsequently, we supported 14
 staff to move to CAT A in Autumn 2020.

 5a.3.4 As members of Vitae and UKCGE, our Research Development Programme,
 informed and guided by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (as endorsed by
 the Research Councils UK and the Quality Assurance Agency) provides research training
 in research methods, ethics and research conduct. Widely praised by our validating bodies,
 the programme provides over 40 face-to-face (online during COVID) workshops on an
 annual basis to ECRs and PGRs, and includes an online suite of specialist research training
 resources. We provide support in writing for publication, mentoring schemes, and funds for
 attending and presenting at conferences and academic networking. We also actively
 encourage experienced staff, ECRs and PGRs to collaborate. And in 2021, we will introduce
 a PgC in Research Practice as part of our Academic Professional Apprenticeship for ECRs.

 PGRs complete a training needs analysis every year. The Graduate School coordinates
 and facilitates this in order to ensure consistency of training experience and opportunities
 for all PGRS. We also create networking opportunities for them with fellow doctoral
 researchers, early career researchers, experienced academic staff from across the
 university, as well as external expert speakers from industry. All supervising staff undertake
 supervisory training (refreshed every three years) and in 2020 we offered all supervisory
 staff the opportunity to undertake the UKCGE Research Supervision Recognition
 Programme.

 Supported by our validating universities, we have so far had four completions, and our
 growing PGR community is funded in various ways that support full-time, part-time and
 international students. In 2019/2020, the Executive approved 20 fee-waiver scholarships
 and two graduate teaching assistant posts, and invested in a brand new, spacious,
 dedicated space in the library for PGRs, with study areas, networked PCs, research
 resources, a recreational area and a space for socialising.

 The principles of transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity are at the centre
 of the processes we have designed in preparation of our first REF submission, and our
 inclusive ethos underpins our Code of Practice.


 5a.3.5
  Early career             13% of submitted staff (FTE) defined as early career
  research staff profile   researchers, on REF 2021 census date at institution level
  Staff on permanent/      100% staff eligible (FTE) and submitted are on permanent
  fixed-term/atypical      contracts, on REF 2021 census date at institution level
  contracts
  Disability profile       93% of submitted staff (FTE) returned with no known disability;
  of staff                 7% disability declared, on REF 2021 census date at institution
                           level
  Gender profile           Gender of submitted staff (FTE) returned are 53.84% female
  of staff                 and 46.16% male
  Ethnicity profile        67% of submitted staff returns as White British, 20 % BAME and
  of staff                 13 % White other
  Gender pay gap           Institutional Mean gender pay gap for academic staff in 2019
                           was 13.3%, as a result of men being under-represented in more
                           junior roles



                                                                                        Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



 Our REF 2021 submission does not discriminate because of age, disability, gender identity,
 marriage or civil partnership, race, religion or beliefs, sex or sexual orientation, or maternity.
 Fixed-term and part-time employees are treated equally. All criteria and procedures applied
 in the assessment process were explained openly and for accessibility, including having
 REF equality as an agenda item for all appropriate committees. All decisions relating to
 REF, eligibility and the selection of outputs are documented in the minutes of committees,
 and communicated through all staff events, all staff emails, school deans, school research
 leads, school executives and other school meetings.



     4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 5a.4.1 Our research-related KPIs are agreed by the senior leadership team and regularly
 monitored to ensure that we are delivering on our strategic objectives. Although we have
 not yet been eligible for mainstream QR funds, we have increased grant funding from a wide
 range of external funders to secure a relatively stable and sustainable financial base for
 enhanced research activity. This income – over £1.8m in total since 2015 – reflects the
 diversity of funding sources that we have promptly secured while establishing our research
 reputation. 62% of our research income was generated from UK Government/local
 authorities, health and hospital authorities; 13% from UK based charities; 7% from UK
 industry; plus 9% from EU Government sources.

 5a.4.2 The university’s Research Directorate, established in 2018, oversees all research
 activity and ethical scrutiny. Working with our finance department, it also supports academic
 staff in developing and submitting bids and administrates research projects. Any member
 of academic staff can access opportunities for research funding, including support in
 applying for it, and we actively encourage all staff to do so. New funding opportunities are
 sent to relevant staff and updated on a regular basis on our intranet. Supported by senior
 research staff, our Research Development Manager provides weekly ‘drop-in’ research
 surgeries for staff and regular bid-writing workshops. Chaired by the Director of Research,
 the Research Management Group coordinates and monitors all research and related
 knowledge exchange activities, utilising our four academic schools, together with colleagues
 from finance, marketing, library services and research on a regular basis.

 The university has invested in library facilities, access to databases and collections (full-text
 and index subscription databases) as well as print and electronic journals. Our e-first
 approach to collection development maximises the reach of the collection and supports
 researchers wherever they are. Additionally, our resource request service can source more
 specialist texts whenever our researchers need them.

 5a.4.3 Our campus is designed to create a positive and engaging research environment
 and offers a range of modern academic facilities to meet the needs of each of its subject
 areas. Substantial investment has radically transformed our research environment.
 Examples include:

     •   A UK government award of £6m in 2020 to launch the Suffolk Data Science
         Academy in the DigiTech Centre (in partnership with BT). The new centre
         has access to over £5m of specialist computing infrastructure optimised to the
         development of artificial intelligence and big data analytics research, with a focus
         on machine learning application
     •   £13m investment including from NALEP, Health Education England, NHS Trusts
         and Ipswich Borough Council to build a state-of-the-art Health and Wellbeing



                                                                                            Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


         Institute, Integrated Care Academy, and new accommodation for our Health and
         Social Sciences School
     •   A substantial refurbishment of the northern part of our campus has been completed
         over the last few years. This includes a £5.5m building refurbishment to create The
         Atrium, another of our flagship buildings, which brings STEM subjects together and
         houses the Ipswich Waterfront Innovation Centre, a Virtual Environment for
         Radiotherapy Training suite, psychology labs and network and software
         engineering labs to support research and knowledge exchange
     •   The School of Science, Technology and Engineering, which has delivered a
         comprehensive laboratory and specialist teaching infrastructure upgrade project
         within recent years, investing over £900k in facilities such as the human
         performance lab, biological science labs, the biotechnology lab, an advance
         microscopy suite and investment in arts facilities.

 And opened to the public in August 2020, The Hold offers an exciting new county archive
 and research facility on our campus, and is a project we’ve partnered with Suffolk County
 Council on, funded by the National Lottery Heritage Fund with significant potential for
 research and impact




                                                                                     Page 9
