Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 1. Context and mission

 With origins back to 1875, Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU) received University status in
 1993. In REF2014, GCU ranked as the top Modern University in Scotland for research power.
 An overview of GCU is provided in Table 1.

                                                        2013/14           2019/20
               Total student numbers (FTE)              13660.5           14898.4
               PGR students (FTE)                       396.5             312.6
               Total staff (headcount)                  1,568             1,557
               Total academic staff (headcount)         731               753
               Teaching income, per annum               £33,547,000       £40,265,000
               Research income, per annum               £5,048,277        £5,819,787
                          Table 1: Overview of Glasgow Caledonian University

 GCU has a developed, distinctive mission, ‘For the Common Good’. The focus of its Strategy
 2020 is transforming lives, enriching cities and communities, creating societal benefit through
 social innovation and engaging globally. Located in the centre of Glasgow, the University has
 responded to the City’s pervasive multiple deprivation and disparities in health and well-being,
 including catering for a large population of widening-access students. These factors have been
 key to shaping our research priorities.

 Since 2014, in line with its Common Good mission, GCU’s Research Strategy has revolved
 around addressing three societal challenges - inclusive societies, healthy lives and sustainable
 environments – reflecting the disciplines of our three academic Schools: School of Health & Life
 Sciences, the School of Computing, Engineering & Built Environment and the Glasgow School
 for Business & Society. Issued by United Nations in 2016, the Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDGs) were adopted in 2017 to form the overarching framework for this Strategy.

 Given our location, the research of the University is intrinsically and explicitly linked to place,
 reflecting the challenges, characteristics and aspirations of the City of Glasgow, Scotland and
 the UK; but broadening impact through various international networks.

 2. Strategy

 In 2014, we conducted a strategic review, with stakeholders, to identify strengths and areas
 requiring development or divestment. This was combined with our 2020 Strategy to devise a set
 of ambitious five-year research goals, integrated with our annual Scottish Funding Council
 Outcome Agreements.

 Our most important strategic development since REF2014 was to align research to GCU’s core
 mission, including adoption of the SDGs and development of a new Centres Approval and
 Renewal Process, thus introducing an interdisciplinary thematic approach to underpin our
 Common Good Mission. This has been coupled with an increase in research activity closely
 aligned with Scottish and UK research and industrial policy, achieved through more-focused
 recruitment and development of staff, enhanced research culture, and promotion of external
 funding and strategic partnerships. Most visibly, six Research Centres have been approved and
 established over five years, building upon concentrated areas of research, all aligning
 specifically to a number of SDGs:

    •   BEAM (Built Environment & Asset Management Research Centre) (UoA13): The Centre
        explores the social, environmental and economic interdependencies of sustainable built


                                                                                                 Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        environments in the context of global climate change and natural resource utilisation.
        (SDGs 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 17)
    •   Centre for Climate Justice (UoA13): Established in collaboration with the Mary Robinson
        Foundation for Climate Justice, the Centre explores interdisciplinary areas of social
        justice, health and sustainable environments, providing long-lasting solutions for people,
        communities and society. (SDGs 1, 2, 5, 7, 13 and 17)
    •   Research Centre for Health (ReaCH) (UoA3). The underlying philosophy of ReaCH is to
        bring rigorous health and social science to bear on management of long-term conditions
        and public health improvement, evidencing ‘what works, how and for whom?’. (SDGs 3,
        4, 6, 10 and 17)
    •   SMART Technology (UoAs 11 & 12) The Centre explores the design, development and
        evaluation of intelligent computer-based systems applied in different organisational
        contexts such as energy resource management, industrial processes and manufacturing,
        digital network infrastructures and serious computer games. (SDGs 4, 7, 9, 11, 12 and
        17)
    •   WiSE Centre for Economic Justice (UoAs17, 20, 28) The Centre carries out research into
        economic equality, poverty, public policy, migration and human rights, primarily from a
        gender perspective, fostering creative interdisciplinary initiatives to inform policies for
        more just societies. (SDGs 4, 5, 8, 10, 16 and 17)
    •   Yunus Centre for Social Business & Health (UoAs 3, 17, 20, 28). The work of the Centre
        aims to transform the lives of vulnerable communities through pioneering research in the
        potential for microcredit, social enterprise and civil society more widely to act as
        generators of health and wellbeing. (SDGs 1, 3, 4, 8, 10, 11 and 17)

 Specialised units have formed or continued out of direct responses to policy needs, involving
 collaboration with other institutions and networks: the Nursing, Midwifery & Allied Health
 Professions Research Unit (NMAHP-RU) with the University of Stirling, funded by the Chief
 Scientist Office of Scottish Government’s Health and Social Care Directorate (UoA3); Centre for
 the Social History of Health & Healthcare - a collaboration between the University of Strathclyde
 and GCU, now Scotland’s leading centre for health history (UoA28, UoA3); the Scottish
 Research Partnership in Engineering (UoA12); GCU’s close working collaborations with Health
 Protection Scotland (UoA3).

 As described in UoA statements, academic staff from Schools also work in and across less-
 formal, fluid, research groups (e.g. UoAs 28 and 34 indirectly work across Centres and other
 UoAs), designed to develop newer areas of research excellence, support early career
 researchers, and provide a pathway through which teaching-oriented staff can develop a
 research trajectory.

 This approach has further clarified the focus of our research, improved recruitment and shaped
 development of staff and our culture through better relationships between research groups. This
 has led to a 24.6% increase in overall number of outputs produced between 2014 and 2020. In
 terms of award income, there has been a 15% increase between 2014 and 2020, with the
 average award value having increased by 19% from £24,746 to £29,393. A larger proportion of
 staff has, consequently, been submitted to REF2020 (230 vs 167 in 2014, representing 35% of
 Cat A staff, reflecting our trajectory towards a research-based institution based on continued
 growth of more-established UoAs, such as 3, 20 and 13, and evolution of newer UoAs.

 Overall, the University has largely achieved the seven KPIs defined as part of its 2014 Research
 Strategy: increasing annual research income; increasing proportion of academic staff whose
 work is judged internationally-excellent or world-leading; creating a minimum of four University
 Research Centres; increasing number of postgraduate research degrees awarded; increasing
 the proportion of academic staff with a doctoral-level qualification.

 Our adoption of the SDGs, central to our research, has also helped us to achieve impressive
 results in the Times Higher Impact Rankings, which assesses universities’ achievements against


                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 the SDGs. In the first two years of these rankings, GCU has ranked in the top 50 worldwide, with
 SDG-specific rankings in 2020 as follows:

    •   SDG5 Gender Equality                         12th in the world
    •   SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth         =13th in world
    •   SDG10 Reduced Inequalities                   20th in world
    •   SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production =32nd in world
    •   SDG3 Good Health and Wellbeing               =40th in world


 Future strategic goals

 Guided by the growing importance of the Impact Rankings, and in line with RCUK’s Concordat
 for Engaging the Public with Research and the UKRI’s mission to connect diverse communities
 and create new combinations, our Strategy 2030 aspiration is to become an international leader
 in social innovation. Covid-19, the wider social issues exposed by the pandemic, and enduring
 challenges such as climate change have only reinforced our commitment to the SDGs and
 working directly with civic society, public and private stakeholders to innovate in support of social
 progress.

 Over the next five years, in order to drive our social innovation focussed approach to knowledge
 exchange, we will create a new vehicle to connect the Research Centres, co-locating
 researchers and research students in a dedicated physical space, a ‘Social Innovation Hub’,
 whereby community groups can work co-creatively with researchers, and knowledge exchange
 professionals. Such spaces will serve as a host for new concentrations and combinations of
 researchers, attracting and retaining new research expertise and enhancing our social
 innovation portfolio through co-creation.

 Alongside this, we will create another cross-School and cross-Centre initiative on ‘data science
 for the Common Good’, the research arm of which will be led by our SMART Technology Centre,
 building on our commitment to remote and open access to data as exemplified in our hosting of
 a forthcoming ESRC-funded SafePod.

 The University’s main research KPI of improved REF performance over the coming decade, is
 underpinned by specific objectives as follows: 30% increase in annual research income (from
 £5.7m to £7.5m per annum); increasing the proportion of staff entered into REF and the portfolio
 of outputs impact and environment rated at 3/4*; create or maintain a minimum of 8 University
 Research Centres, working across Schools, Departments and Challenges, and including
 overarching emphases on civic engagement for research, social innovation and data science;
 improving the postgraduate student experience, including completion rates; and further
 increasing the proportion of doctoral-trained academic staff.


 Enabling and facilitating impact

 In 2015, two Impact and Knowledge Exchange Officers were recruited with the remit to improve
 our pre- and post-award activities to ensure our research is impactful in wider society. This
 approach has defined the way in which GCU research engages and co-creates with local
 communities, responding to policy challenges defined at local, national and global levels, linking
 with policymakers or larger networks to maximise impact. These alliances have been central to
 the establishment and growth of our Research Centres. For example, the Centre for Climate
 Justice’s links to the Mary Robinson Foundation have contributed directly to its hosting of the
 first ever World Climate Justice Forum in 2019 and playing a major role in preparations for
 COP26. The Research Centre for Health’s work with NHS Lanarkshire and hosting of the
 research arm of Health Protection Scotland and the CSO-funded NMAHP-RU have led to major
 health impacts such as reduced hepatitis C transmission. Through working with Nobel Peace

                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Laureate, Muhammad Yunus, GCU leads a global network of Yunus Centres and pioneered a
 new research nexus conceptualising social enterprise and microfinance as upstream public
 health interventions. BEAM’s close ties with Energy Action Scotland has helped it change
 government policy and the WiSE Centre has played a leading role in informing policy through
 the European Gender Budgeting Network as well as the Women’s Global Economic Forum,
 2017.

 Our community and public engagement reflects our Common Good approach to research. Since
 2012, GCU has engaged with over 20,000 members of the public on almost 200 events involving
 1000 staff, 1200 students and 500 internal and external partners. For example, since 2017, our
 annual research celebration has been framed around the SDGs, highlighting the combined
 research power of our Research Centres, Schools and community and commercial projects in
 this respect. The expanded and restructured Research and Innovation Office has integrated
 GCU’s wider social innovation mission as a way of extending its portfolio of collaboration with
 existing external stakeholders through Innovation Vouchers, KTPs and UK Industrial Grand
 Challenges fund. We have targeted investment of SFC University Innovation Funds to develop
 new strategies for national and international engagement alongside continued industrial
 partnerships, and new pipelines for industrial research partnerships through the newly-formed
 Institute for University to Business Education, which creates staff mobility through engaging with
 business, public and third sectors.


 Engaging with regional and national research priorities

 GCU’s direct engagement with Scottish Government’s National Performance Framework (NPF)
 has led to the introduction of a Research and Innovation Impacts Logic Model which defines
 universities’ contributions to national priorities according to their alignment with the SDGs. Our
 Yunus Centre has supported the delivery of the Scottish Government’s Social Innovation Fund,
 and SMART has worked closely with the Scottish Innovation Centres, Datalab and Sensors &
 Imaging (CENSIS). GCU also engages with the UK Industrial Strategy and, specifically, UKRI’s
 mission to ‘connect diverse communities and create new combinations’ as well as RCUK’s
 Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research as evidenced by our close working
 relationship with the NHS. The University plays an active role with national and regional
 research policy committees, such as Universities UK, Universities Scotland’s Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee and the Research and Commercialisation Directors’ Group, as
 well as the UK Council for Graduate Education Executive Committee and Universities Scotland
 Research Training and Development Committee. We ensure that the perspective of Modern
 universities is taken into account in the development of policy, and in particular, that inclusive
 growth is prioritised. GCU is also a signatory of the recently established Knowledge Exchange
 Concordat.



 Creating an open research environment

 The University Senate approved a policy for Open Access to Research in 2014 and abides by
 the FAIR Guiding Principles for scientific data management and stewardship (findability,
 accessibility, interoperability, and reuse of digital assets). All research active staff are
 responsible for ensuring that their research outputs are made freely available wherever possible
 and fully comply with the publishing requirements of their research funders.

 The University has adopted a ‘green’ or ‘self-archiving’ model of free open access. It is a
 mandatory requirement for academic staff to deposit full text copies of the author-final versions
 of journal articles and conference proceedings in the PURE Research Information System and
 Repository. Additional Gold-route open access publication has been supported through research
 grant funding for open access publication, supplemented by research excellence funds.



                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Interdisciplinarity and research integrity

 Our Research Centres were created on a thematic basis with the specific aim of promoting
 challenge-based, interdisciplinary research. Collaborations across Centres are increasingly
 prevalent in areas such as digital health (UoA11 and 3), health economics (UoA17 and 3), health
 history (UoA 3 and UoA28), while UoAs 34 and 23 work across disciplines. We have directed
 REG funding specifically to people and projects that have an interdisciplinary focus and have
 targeted EU funding to scale up our cross-sector, international and interdisciplinary mobility and
 actions.

 As member of the Scottish Research Integrity Network, the University is committed to the
 highest standards of research integrity and good practice in all research activities, as set out in
 the GCU Research Integrity Policy Statement. The University has committed to the UKRIO
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and to the UKRIO Code of Practice for Research
 through its Code of Good Practice for Research Staff and continual review. A Research Data
 Management Policy sets out University requirements for staff and students in the management,
 storage, public access to and long-term curation of digital research data.

 The University’s ethical procedures and policy apply to all levels of study and to funded and
 unfunded research conducted in educational, health, social care or prison settings. It provides an
 outline of ethical principles to guide decision making, details the operation of the University
 Research Ethics and Integrity Subcommittee and the process for making an application to it or to
 Schools’ Ethics Committees. The Subcommittee continually reviews processes in order to take
 into account shifts in policy and technology such as GDPR and automated decision-making by
 AI algorithms.

 3. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Since 2014, GCU has placed a specific emphasis on using REG funding for an ambitious
 recruitment strategy to attract top professors and ECRs in order to drive up excellence, foster
 new vitality and creativity. This has led to an increase in academic staff whose work we have
 judged to be internationally-excellent or world-leading and a higher proportion of academic staff
 with a doctoral-level qualification. At the same time, the University’s People Strategy for 2020
 has focused on staff development in line with a Values and Behaviours Framework of integrity,
 creativity, responsibility and confidence, which has a high level of staff buy-in and reflects sector-
 wide initiatives with respect to integrity and researcher development. Since 2017, a
 Professoriate (94 members) has been convened in order to share best practice and exchange
 ideas on strategic and operational issues related to research.

 GCU received the HR Excellence in Research Award in November 2013, with re-accreditations
 in 2015 and 2020. Also in 2020, we renewed our commitment to the revised Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers. Our researcher development offerings are
 revised and revamped annually, overseen by the Graduate School. GCU has membership of the
 Vitae CEDARS steering group to develop the new UK Researcher Experience Survey CEDARS
 for staff researchers piloted in 2020.

 Staff researchers benefit from People Services policies and support available to all staff. Across
 the University, the Staff Performance and Development Annual Review (PDAR) is seen as an
 integral part of agreeing and developing a research workplan, personal development, work
 allocation and setting targets in line with the University Research Strategy.




                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Early Career Researchers

 Fifty-two ECRs are being submitted to REF2021, as compared to 27 for REF2014. HR
 Excellence accreditation and RD Concordat adoption have each led to the creation of the DARE
 (Developing Academic Researchers in Excellence) Steering Group, established in 2018 to
 provide a platform and voice to ECRs at GCU. DARE is coordinated by our Graduate School,
 but run by ECR representatives from the Schools and Research Centres, overseeing a
 University network of 89 ECRs which meets four times a year. DARE also has oversight of the
 DARE to Lead programme, involving a suite of development programmes for Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs). An example of cross-School collaboration with respect to ECRs has been
 the introduction of a career development opportunity based on the Scottish Crucible leadership
 and development course.

 The GCU researcher experience is well supported with policies, training and resources on the
 latest sector developments, such as well-being, online supervision, research data management,
 as well as an extensive supervisor CPD programme for new and experienced supervisors, our
 DARE to Lead research leadership programme, and a Mentoring scheme for new supervisors
 and ECRs.


 Research students

 There are currently over 400 (headcount) students at GCU studying towards a PhD,
 Professional Doctorate or Master of Research degree – from over fifty countries. Numbers
 reflect increased international and industrial doctorate sponsorship and recruitment, since 2014,
 through the H2020 European Training Network, Carnegie fellowship scheme, and industrial
 partners such as the Innovation Centre of Online systems with Doble Engineering.

 Core to our research strategy, we are creating facilities, based around our Research Centres,
 which allow for co-location of PhD students alongside supervisors, creating a forum for a rich
 interchange of expertise and experience. Students are invited to join interdisciplinary research
 groups, attend and participate in the organisation and delivery of staff and research meetings
 and peer-support activities, such as writing workshops and master-classes. The University also
 supports a diverse range of opportunities to celebrate and promote post-graduate research,
 such as the internationally-acclaimed ‘three-minute thesis’ competition, embedded within our
 annual Research Celebration.

 Our Graduate School provides development opportunities for research students, doctoral
 supervisors and staff developing their research careers, with over 150 workshops on offer
 involving essential generic research and transferable skills training, including a focus on
 academic writing development at all stages of doctoral study and publication e.g. PgCert in
 Research Methods and the PgCert in Academic Practice for teaching. Inter-university, PhD
 students can attend a 5-day Academic Writing School and Writing Retreat led by GCU in
 partnership with Scottish universities from the central belt. GCU is also part of the Scottish
 Graduate School for Social Sciences offering training, summer schools and PhD student
 placements. All GCU researcher development programmes are designed using the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework, guiding students through the entirety of their doctoral
 journey and staff through their research career development.

 Our commitment to student welfare is exemplified by extensive support provided across the
 University including specialised training in collaboration with the Scottish Association for Mental
 Health. Doctoral students are supported by a network of Postgraduate Research Tutors,
 Research Student representatives and Research Degree Administrators with network meetings
 and student listening events. The PgR Reps are trained centrally by the Student Association to
 represent students on School and University research committees and they lead on the
 development of student initiatives and partner with research leaders to enhance the research
 student experience. The University is also one of 3 UK universities in 2020 to pilot a new

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 University Mental Health Charter on behalf of Student Minds; an accreditation scheme that will
 recognise and benchmark best practice in supporting mental health across the country’s HEIs to
 be launched in 2021. During the Covid pandemic, GCU was one of the first UK universities to
 develop a PgR policy for the extension of funding and time due to Covid, and online vivas are
 now fully integrated into the GCU PgR examination regulations.


 Equality and diversity

 Our Equality and Diversity Strategy has been integral in the planning and implementation of the
 REF2021 Code of Practice and the whole REF process. An assessment of the procedures used
 in an initial mock REF exercise have been carried out by the REF Equality and Diversity Group,
 including a full Equality Impact Assessment. But GCU goes beyond this and sees the equality
 and diversity of its environment as a key aspect of its Common Good mission, enriching the
 community within the University itself and underlining our commitment to the communities that
 we engage with, by reflecting the heterogeneity of its populations.

 We have a Staff Resourcing and Recruitment Policy supported by detailed guidance to ensure
 that recruiting managers make the best appointment in line with agreed higher education best
 practice and legislative requirements. Guidance takes into account: i) ethnicity - cultural
 sensitivities; language; ii) disability - alternate/ accessible formats; iii) gender - inclusive to
 women and men; iv) sexual orientation; v) faith or belief, religious practices; age - needs of
 younger and older people.

 Glasgow Caledonian University has been formally recognised for its commitment to promoting
 gender equality by attaining the Advance HE's Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award. The
 number of female professors at GCU is 40% of the total employed in 2019-20, compared to the
 Scottish average of 23.7% and UK average of 27%, with a 0% median and 2.6% mean gender
 pay gap.

 Of academic staff submitted to REF, 15.7% declared themselves to be from BAME backgrounds
 (compared to 9.3% of those not submitted). In light of the challenges surrounding ethnicity of
 both students and academics across the University, a series of recommendations has been
 made, recognising that institutional racism is a structural and not an individual issue and that
 tackling racism and racial inequalities should form a core part of the University’s Common Good
 mission.

 In the CEDARS 2020 survey for staff researchers, GCU respondents, from new staff < 2 years,
 agreed that their recruitment, selection and appointment process was: fair (94%), inclusive
 (91%), transparent (79%) and merit-based (91%), exceeding the UK benchmark for fair by 11
 percentage points, inclusive by 17 points, transparent by 6 points and merit-based by 9 points.
 GCU’s Principal was awarded 2019’s Social Mobility Champion of the Year at the UK Social
 Mobility Awards.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Institutional strategies

 The University has reorganised and invested resources in two new support functions for
 research. Centrally, we have restructured the Research & Innovation Office (RIO) with a team
 increased from 5 to 12 staff members. The Office takes a proactive approach by not only
 responding to researcher needs but proactively engaging with academics in the development
 and leadership of research and innovation projects. The Office raises awareness of opportunities
 for researchers through resources such as ResearchProfessional and lends policy insight across
 the spectrum; it oversees awards management, costing and contracts for research projects
 through PURE, as well as knowledge exchange activities, the intellectual property portfolio and
 commercialisation activities, and the internationalisation of research through engagement with

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and management of European and global networks, especially GCRF; it leads on overall
 coordination of the REF submissions.

 More distributed, are support functions for Schools and Centres coordinated under a School-
 based Business Support unit which comprises Research Advisors for each School and
 Research Centre Administrators. As part of this refresh, the University created four new support
 positions to enhance the processing of our growing portfolio of research and innovation,
 commitments to research integrity and researcher development, management of metrics related
 to research and to develop a more proactive approach to research support within the University.
 Furthermore, as described above, GCU has created a specialised team including newly-
 recruited Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange Officers who work alongside Research
 Advisers within the Schools and RIO in order ensure that socioeconomic impact forms an
 integral part of the University’s research strategy.

 In addition, our entrepreneurial incubation hub, UHatch, is designed to support students, staff
 and alumni to develop their business skills and start up their own organisations. UHatch has
 already helped 45 fledgling graduate businesses achieve a combined turnover of more than
 £1.4million hosting three Royal Society of Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowships including Giraffe
 Healthcare (UoA3).


 Infrastructure and facilities

 The Heart of the Campus was a £30million redevelopment of GCU’s Glasgow campus,
 completed in 2016. As part of this, we designed dedicated space for five of our six University-
 designated Research Centres with plans to continue. This has been augmented by annual REG
 investment to maintain the quality of our research: Studentships (£1,050,000); new Post-doc
 salaries (£425,000); other Post-doc costs (£100,000); research support staff (£255,000); other
 research salaries (£410,000); Research Centre support (£925,000); open access and other
 central costs (£230,000). Some of these costs help to maintain and improve our research
 facilities, as described in the individual UoA statements.

 A priority for research investment has been centred around the wider campus development,
 including state-of-the-art library and archive facilities (the Sir Alex Ferguson Library), and our
 Current Research Information System (CRIS), PURE which has been supported with initial
 investment and an annual contract, the value which has increased by 700% during this REF
 period. Consequently, library staff dedicated to research support has increased from 0.2FTE in
 2013/14 to 3FTE in 2019/20. As part of our commitment to ‘big data’ and data access, GCU has
 acquired an ESRC-funded SafePod; a microsafe setting to support, strengthen and widen
 remote access to research datasets held by Data Centres across the UK.


 Equality and diversity, in relation to support for acquiring research funding, or accessing
 scholarly or operational infrastructure

 Our Dignity at Work and Study Policy is the guiding policy to support people with different
 protected characteristics and circumstances and outlines a Zero Tolerance approach to any form
 of unlawful discrimination, including harassment, victimisation, racism, sexism, homophobia, and
 any other unacceptable behaviour. This overarching policy is applied as part of the support and
 operational infrastructure for research.

 GCU’s Advancing Gender Equality Group has the remit to review all relevant GCU policies and
 procedures in relation to equality and in particular to support the University in maintaining
 Athena SWAN accreditation. The University continues to engage in the Leadership Foundation
 for Higher Education’s Aurora Programme. Reflecting this approach, four of our six Research
 Centres are directed by women.


                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In terms of support for the advancement of BAME members of staff, two of our six Research
 Centres are directed by someone from a BAME background. We also have in place a Trans
 Student Policy, and are cognisant of the potential needs of trans and gender diverse staff as an
 issue under continued consideration.

 GCU’s clear commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals and the common good mission
 permeates throughout its UoAs, facilitating the development of a clear strategic goal to develop
 its research excellence and become world-leading in social innovation by 2030.




                                                                                            Page 9
