Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Institution:
University of Essex
1. Context and mission

Founded in 1964 the University of Essex’s vision is to build a living and learning community,
committed to doing ‘research at the growing points of knowledge’ and ‘collaborating with industry’
in the context of the ‘national need’ and needs of the region. This vision continues to define our
mission: to build a living, working and learning community producing research that improves
people’s lives, locally, nationally and globally.

Size, Structure and Balance

We are a dual-intensive university, equally committed to excellence in research and education, and
our Top 25 ranking for research in the Times Good University Guide and TEF Gold status
demonstrates our excellence in both. We are a thriving, international community, ranking in the top
50 in the world for ‘international outlook’ in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings
throughout this REF review period. We have been on a growth trajectory since 2011, increasing
from 1,700 to 2,300 staff and 11,000 to over 15,000 students, including 1,300 postgraduate
researchers who work and study across our 21 departments and schools. Our growth included the
appointment of 373 REF-eligible staff and is part of our strategy to invest in units of assessment
(UoA) to create critical mass and to extend our discipline mix to respond to emerging research and
education priorities.

We are ranked in the top 10 of all HEIs for the proportion of doctoral awards per member of staff
for the current REF period and in 2020, ranked 2nd of all HEIs submitting to REF 2021. Our
enterprise and knowledge exchange activities have been a major focus of investment and growth
in the current REF period. We are part of KEF Cluster X, defined as ‘high research-intensive and
broad-discipline universities undertaking a significant amount of excellent research’ and are ranked
in the top 10% for working with the public sector, top 20% for local growth regeneration and public
and community engagement and top 40% for IP and commercialisation.

Essex has been the intellectual home to research resources and platforms of national and
international significance, with a focus on data science. The UK Data Archive, established at
Essex in 1967, holds the nation’s largest collection of digital data in social sciences and humanities
with a Secure Lab allowing access to sensitive and confidential data, enabling researchers at
Essex, and globally, to produce research that impacts on a range of policy issues. We have three
flagship interdisciplinary Institutes taking innovative and impactful approaches to address major
societal challenges, which jointly have attracted more than £83m during this REF period. The
Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER) (est. 1989) housed the British Household
Panel Survey (BHPS) and is now home to its successor, Understanding Society, the ESRC
Research Centre on Micro-Social Change (MiSOC) and the Microsimulation Unit, EUROMOD.
Over this REF period ISER has expanded its interdisciplinary reach into public health and biosocial
research, and is contributing to three UoAs (Public Health, Economics and Sociology). The Human
Rights Centre (est. 1983) is based in the School of Law and is one of the longest standing centres
of excellence in Europe. It includes colleagues from all three of our Faculties, with 100 members
from across 11 disciplines; it is home to the ESRC funded Human Rights, Big Data and
Technology Project (2015-2020). It was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2009. The
Institute for Analytics and Data Science (IADS) (est. 2014) connects with scholars, businesses,
institutions, and authorities, to work on their data needs. IADS is harnessing the power of data to
drive evidence-led decision-making, policy formation and product- and service-development. IADS
is home to the ESRC-funded Business and Local Government Data Research Centre. It also co-
hosts the Essex Centre for Data Analytics, a tripartite partnership with Essex County Council and
Essex Police to enable the public sector to make evidence-based decisions to address challenges
facing people and places in Essex.




                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
These three Institutes represent our major peaks of research excellence in social sciences, human
rights and data analytics and our globally significant research in these areas has been recognised
internationally through: the award of the UK’s first Regius Professorship of Political Science
(2013); our second Queen’s Anniversary Prize awarded to ISER for improving lives with
authoritative social and economic research (2017); and the world’s first UNESCO Chair in
Analytics and Data Science (2016) awarded to the Director of IADS. Continuing our legacy of
excellence in data science, our flagship Institutes embed data analytics across the University
through joint academic appointments, secondments and research fellowships. For example, Essex
County Council’s Chief Scientific Advisor, the first in a local authority in the UK, is based in IADS.

Economic and Demographic context

The county of Essex (population 1.8M) is a region of economic diversity with low productivity
relative to the UK average and where highly affluent areas sit alongside Europe’s most deprived
coastal communities. The regional business landscape is characterised by SMEs based on new
technologies, logistics and agri-tech, having only a few large employers. The University is an
important asset for the regional economy, making a contribution of £584m to the UK economy in
2018/19, an increase from £259m in 2014/15 and our research and technology park, the
Knowledge Gateway, has created a 43-acre innovation hub on our campus, housing 35
companies anchored around IADS. The Knowledge Gateway was one of 20 awarded the
prestigious University Enterprise Zone status in 2019 supported by Research England and UK
government funding.

2. Strategy

Our Research Strategy and Achievements (2013-19)

Our purpose is to contribute to society through excellence in research in the disciplinary and
interdisciplinary fields of our research staff, and to use this new knowledge to improve people’s
lives in the UK and abroad. In the review period our aims were: to grow our research power;
develop further our interdisciplinarity; and build strong collaborative partnerships.

Growing Research Power

We have successfully delivered our growth goals and our REF-eligible staff has increased by
107%, from 339 FTE in 2014 to 702 FTE in 2020, including 226 ECRs, an increase from 78 in
2014. Our intake of postgraduate researchers increased by 5-10% each year from 2014-2019. Our
strategy to grow both our critical mass and discipline breadth has increased our research capacity
and re-vitalised our community, and enabled succession planning and sustainability of our staffing
profile (see People section). As a result, we are submitting to three additional UoAs in 2021:
Mathematics; Public Health; and Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies.

Increasing Interdisciplinarity

Our founding vision embedded an interdisciplinary approach to research and we have a well-
established infrastructure of interdisciplinarity, including our three flagship Institutes and over 30
Research Centres. During this review period we have produced our first sector-focused sub-
strategy and new interdisciplinary research centres that specifically link our research with the
needs of external stakeholders. Examples include the Digital Cultural and Creative Research
Network, bringing together academics from the humanities, social and health sciences contributing
to sector-wide developments in practice-as-research, and the Essex Plant Innovation Centre
(EPIC), building research across Life Sciences, Data Science, Computer Science and the Essex
Business School working with the agri-tech and environmental industries to deliver solutions for the
food industry. To facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration we have established monthly Cross-
University Research Events (CUREs), hosted by the Pro Vice-Chancellor Research. Across our
three Faculties, the development of shared research themes, e.g. digital humanities, brain
sciences and computational social science, encourages further interdisciplinary collaboration. We

                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
actively support interdisciplinary PGR studies through institutional funding of PhD scholarships
(over 50 in this REF period) requiring cross-departmental supervision and our Postgraduate Dean
provides funding to support an Interdisciplinary Conference organised by our PGR students.

Building Partnerships

Our open and inclusive approach ensures the continued development of meaningful and long-term
partnerships co-producing research with real impact. In this REF period we have established
strong partnerships with academic institutions, business and local and regional government.

Academic Partnerships

We are a founding member of the Eastern Academic Research Consortium (Eastern Arc), a
strategic partnership between the Universities of East Anglia, Essex and Kent. Since 2013 the
Consortium has funded 21 PhD studentships and nine Research Fellows across Digital
Humanities, Synthetic Biology and Quantitative Social Sciences, and secured £21.4m in external
funding over the last 5 years, including £4.7m of Research England funding for the Essex-led EIRA
(Enabling Innovation: Research to Application) programme.

We are a coordinator or partner in six successful Doctoral Training Partnerships and Centres
established during this REF period, funded by AHRC, NERC, EPSRC, BBSRC and ESRC and
involving more than 20 HEIs, 50 collaborative partners and 200 PhDs and 10 postdoctoral fellows.

Essex is a founding member of the Young European Research Universities Network (YERUN, est.
2015), involving 18 partners and providing our research staff with networking and research
collaboration opportunities, alongside cross-institutional training. We have secured EU funding for
YERUN collaborative projects in international doctoral study (€410,000) and Open Science
(€300,000).

Essex is also a founding member of the Young Universities for the Future of Europe (YUFE), part
of the EU flagship initiative to build a European education area. YUFE comprises ten research-
intensive universities and four non-academic partners located across Europe. YUFE has won two
consecutive large EU grants (€5million and €2million) to develop a joint educational framework and
a pan-European research and innovation strategy.

Essex researchers have also developed 170 collaborative projects with a total of 322 international
partners from 70 countries generating a total of £55.7m since 2017.

Business and Local and Regional Government Partnerships

We have developed a wide network of collaborative partnerships with local and regional
government, business and industry and together with 52 businesses we have won 60 KTP awards
linked to 9 departments. Since 2018 we have consistently ranked in the top five in the UK for the
number of KTPs, and in 2020 were 2nd, attracting £12.5m in funding.

A collaboration (2019) with TWI Ltd (Cambridge), an independent research and technology
organisation with over 1800 industrial member companies worldwide, has linked our expertise in
artificial intelligence (AI) with global businesses and has resulted in >£1m of industry-linked
funding, the co-creation of an MSc in AI, and two PhD scholarships (2020).

We have strong links with policymakers, local government, NGOs and business. The University
invested in a project in 2019, with the Cabinet Office Open Innovation Team, to help develop new
policies by linking government directly with research from universities across the UK. To deliver
benefit to our region, we have strengthened our collaboration with Essex County Council by co-
funding an innovative post of Chief Scientific Advisor in 2017 and The Essex Centre for Data
Analytics, ECDA, established in 2017, a joint venture between Essex County Council, Essex Police
and Essex University.

                                                                                            Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

Achieving impact

Integral to achieving impact are our partnerships and our approach to Knowledge Exchange that is
aimed to position the University as an innovation hub creating long-term initiatives and solutions.
The investment in our Knowledge Gateway, our Research and Technology Park, which now
houses 35 companies, has enabled research collaborations with our academics, providing both
space and hands-on development and innovation support for knowledge-based science,
technology and digital creative companies across the region. Our innovation and enterprise
activities have led to substantial increase in our HEIF funding (from £780k in 2014 to £3.4m in
2021), which we have reinvested in developing further our Knowledge Exchange activities,
contributing to more than doubling collaborative research income in this REF period. Impact is
embedded at all levels of research planning and delivery, from impact training and support at the
start of projects to recognition and celebration events at the end (Research and Impact Excellence
Awards). All researchers specify the potential impact of their research, creating a database that
enables us to optimise commercialisation and knowledge exchange, and identify future impact
case studies. Our Centre for Public Engagement was established in 2017 to strengthen our
connections with local communities, public bodies and NGOs and co-produce high-impact
research.

Engaging with Regional and National Research Priorities

Our approach to working with our partners shapes our engagement with regional and national
priorities e.g. engagement with bodies like Essex County Council, the East of England NIHR
Research Design Service and our EIRA network which is providing businesses with access to our
facilities and expertise to improve business productivity all link to the industrial strategy. Our
Global Challenges Fund is deployed strategically to support delivery of the national industrial
strategy and Challenge Fund priorities. Eastern Arc’s collective research expertise is mapped to
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, as applied in a regional context. Essex has been
successful in attracting funding across the UKRI strategic priorities e.g. sustainable agriculture and
food, environment solutions, innovation in health and social care, artificial intelligence, human
rights, health and wellbeing.

In the review period the University has received £10m in funding from the Southeast Local
Enterprise Partnership to support business engagement and economic growth.

Our Research Strategy and Future Ambitions (2019-2025)

Our University Strategic Plan sets out our ambition that in 2025 we continue to be recognised
nationally and globally for the world-leading quality, scale and impact of our research. We aim to
be in the top 25 of the Times Good University Guide, the top 200 in the Times Higher Education
World University Rankings and in the top 20 for our overall research profile in the REF2021.
Research income per FTE should exceed the average benchmark achieved by research-intensive
UK universities by 2025, and the total value of our HEBCI return should exceed the average
income of the KEF Cluster X group.

Research Strategy 2019 to 2025

Through appointing and supporting talented and creative people, our vision is that our
transformational research will continue breaking intellectual boundaries and extending knowledge
to address both established and emerging challenges of local, national and global significance.

A central focus of our activities will be the further growth of our research community, partnerships
and power. We are on a trajectory to reach 1,000 REF-eligible FTE by 2025, many of whom will
be ECRs, and our continued investment in the next generation of researchers brings vitality and
new expertise to our established areas of excellence; and drives the development of new strengths
and collaborations.

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

Through a combination of institutional- and department-level reviews, we have identified two new
interdisciplinary strengths for strategic development: Health and Wellbeing linked to our
partnership with Public Health England, supporting our plan to submit to UoA3 Allied Health
Professions in the next REF exercise; and Environmental Recovery and Food Systems connected
to our Centre for Environment and Society and the Eastern Arc research area priorities.

Realising the potential of our strong partnerships will be central to achieving our strategic goals.
Our new strategy for the Eastern Arc (2020), has a focus on four interdisciplinary themes led by
Champions in each institution: Health Systems, Social Care and Wellbeing; Human Rights,
Equality and Conflict; Sustainability, Natural Resources and Food; Culture, Connection and
Creativity. The recent EU grant successes for YUFE and the opening of our Innovation Centre on
the Knowledge Gateway provide excellent opportunities for further growth of our partnerships. We
are committed to building future research and industry collaborations in the region and emergent
new opportunities being explored include the Catapult Innovation Centre in Braintree, Public Health
England, and Coastal Marine research in partnership with the Centre for Environment, Fisheries
and Aquaculture Science.

Open Research Environment

We have created an open approach to our research through implementation of policies consistent
with the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, our Code of Good Research Practice. We
have published an institutional statement on the responsible use of research metrics, and have
signed the DORA agreement. An Open Research Group is chaired by the PVC-R and, in 2018,
produced a guide Good Practice: Reaching Academic and Public Audiences. We have also
developed tools such as the Open Access Escape Room and Copyright Dough Game, to raise
awareness and support understanding of Open Access, which we have shared through our
national and international partnerships.

3. People

Our People Supporting Strategy commits us to building an inclusive, agile and flexible working
culture, underpinned by our values of academic freedom, respect, trust and evidence-based rigour,
based on an evolving organisational culture and behavioural change.

As part our strategy to support and develop our researchers throughout their careers, we have
produced a new Researcher Development Framework. This new framework together with our
Professors Network and Peer Exchange Network, are all aimed at supporting personal growth and
the professional capability of our staff through workshops, real-time conversations and reflections.
Our ‘How We Work at Essex’ framework, supports members of our community to be role models
for diversity and inclusivity and to ensure their behaviour and actions are in keeping with the values
of the University. In 2018 we were awarded the Times Higher Education (THE) award of ‘University
of the Year’, recognising our commitment to putting student and staff success at the centre of
everything we do, with tremendous effect.

Our Essential Training Policy developed internally, takes a scenario-based approach to training
for all staff, providing both an understanding of the University’s values and organisational
behaviour and the knowledge of how to work in a safe way, compliant with statutory obligations
and legislation. As of March 2021, completion rates were 84.35% for all staff and 75% for
managers. The aim of our Flexible Working Policy (revised 2019) is ‘for a flexible working culture
to be the norm and for this to support delivery of our mission’, including informal day-to-day
flexibility; we have a 95% approval rate for flexible working requests. Our standardised academic
job descriptions reflect the duties and expectations required at each grade and mirror the criteria
for permanency and promotion. Our Resourcing Guidance has equality, diversity and inclusion at
its heart. Positive action statements are used to encourage applications from under-represented
groups. All recruitment panel members complete our Recruitment and Selection training and the
panel chair is responsible for ensuring a diversity mix. Essex has taken positive action in

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
addressing the gender pay and in 2016 all female Professors were given three extra increments
and there are now no significant pay gaps at any grade. Our postgraduate research body is
among the most diverse and socially inclusive in the UK; for example, 9% of our PGRs are Black
UK-domiciled (against the national average of 4%) reflecting our commitment to nurturing more
inclusive and diverse research power for the future.

Our Annual Review procedures set out the criteria on which staff on ‘Pathway to Permanency’
and those applying for promotion are assessed. The criteria for permanency and promotion set
clear standards for our academic staff to be successful on any of our academic pathways. All staff
on our three-year Pathway to Permanency produce an academic development agreement with
their Head of Department and are allocated an academic supervisor to support them in meeting
targets and achieving permanency. Over the last 5 years (2015-2020), 303 members of academic
staff (144 female, 159 male) applied for permanency. Of these, 90% were successful at first
application (92% for female staff, 87% for male). In our promotion rounds (2013-2020) 379
applications for promotion were made (180 female, 199 male), of which 81.5% were successful
(86.6% for women, 76.8% for men).

Our generous Research Leave allowance provides staff on academic research contracts one term
of leave for every six terms worked, benefitting 618 staff over the REF period. Time on maternity
leave or paid leave of absence automatically counts towards research leave entitlement. Unpaid
leave or sick leave may also count towards research leave entitlement. Our Career Development
Fund for carers is open to all staff to cover additional caring costs to attend conferences outside of
their normal working hours.

Our Action Plan for Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers was published in 2014 and reviewed in 2016 and 2018 and, following our review in
2020, we retained our HR Excellence in Research Award.

Key achievements from 2013-20 include:

1.   Reducing the proportion of research staff on fixed-term contracts from 18.7% in 2013-14 to
     14.1% in 2019-20;
2.   In May 2019, we held the inaugural Celebrating Excellence in Research Awards. In total nine
     researchers received awards over three categories: ‘Research Champions’, ‘Exceptional
     Performance’ and ‘Outstanding Early Career Researcher’;
3.   The percentage of probationary researchers successfully applying for permanency increased
     from 83.3% in 2014-15 to 90.9% in 2019-20;
4.   The percentage of eligible staff applying for promotion increased from 14.3% in 2013-14 to
     32.4% in 2019-20.

Our focus for Concordat implementation from 2020-22 is to provide additional support for
researchers including developing research leadership skills at all levels through the implementation
of our new Researcher Development Framework.

Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) includes our ‘Pathway to Permanency’ (previously
probation) process that involves the setting of clear expectations and provides consistent access to
mentoring. Two further opportunities are our Future Leaders and the Network for Early Career
Essex Researchers courses that provide our early career staff and postgraduate researchers with
opportunities to share learning, develop leadership skills, grow personal networks and formulate a
career plan. All training opportunities and resources are aligned to Vitae’s Researcher
Development Framework.

Proficio is our innovative professional development framework for postgraduate research
students from which they can gain access to ~300 research and career training courses, aligned
to Vitae RDF, up to a value of £2,500 per person. 1:1 coaching is available at any point in the
PhD journey and all our postgraduate researchers are eligible for graduate teaching and HEI
teaching training (Cadenza), leading to AFHEA accreditation. Our PGR students who work as

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Graduate Teaching or Laboratory Assistants are given staff contracts with standardised pay rates
and benefits, AFHEA accreditation is encouraged through a higher pay rate and all have the title
Assistant Lecturer. Over and above the discipline-specific research training our PGRs receive,
which includes building impact into the design of their research, we provide the acquisition of
research specific skills in close combination with transferable skills and transversal competencies
so that our PGRs are well positioned for research-led careers which respond to the evolving needs
of global employers. Our postgraduate research students proceed to pursue research at the
forefront of knowledge, take up positions in academia and prominent roles in industry and
governments. Our PGR alumni include Nobel Prize laureates, Presidents, and a Regius Professor.

Our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion continues to be reflected in every aspect
of our activities - from requiring committees to consider issues through equality, diversity and
inclusion lenses, to empowering those in senior leadership roles to be inclusion champions and
role models, to adopting a zero-tolerance approach to harassment and bullying, to policies
governing access of shared facilities and resources.

We have held an Athena SWAN Bronze Institution Award since 2013 and will apply for a Silver
Institution Award in 2021 and 11 departments hold Bronze Awards and 3 Silver. We have been a
Stonewall Top 100 Employer for four of the last five years, a Disability Confident (formerly Two
Ticks) Employer since 2008 and will be applying for a Bronze Race Equality Charter Award in
2022. We are one of the founding signatories of the Technician Commitment (2019) and technical
staff will be included in our research excellence awards in recognition of their important
contribution. We actively encourage debate on equality, diversity and inclusion-related issues
through our all-staff forums and networks.

To ensure equality and diversity issues in REF submissions, we developed a Code of Practice
that included Unconscious Bias training completed by all staff involved in any aspect of decision-
making in our REF2021 processes. The membership of our Individual Staff Circumstances
Committee is diverse in terms of gender and ethnicity and our Head of Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion sits on our REF2021 Advisory Group. Bespoke trained in EDI and UB, this body has
been responsible for the management of our REF process and reported to our Research
Committee, Senior Management Group and Council.

4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

During the current REF period we have delivered on our goal to invest strategically in our physical,
digital and human infrastructure with the aims to:

      create a high quality research environment;
      support the growth in our research community;
      enable world-class research, to retain and recruit high quality staff;
      increase our international profile and attract leading researchers to benefit from our
       facilities.

Facilities supporting research and investments

A major strategic investment (£60m) to deliver a step change in our links with external
stakeholders has allowed us to establish the 43-acre Knowledge Gateway, at our Colchester
campus (2014). This was followed by further investment in our Innovation Centre opened in 2019
(£14m), including £3m from Essex County and South East LEP facilitating close working between
our researchers, the Innovation Centre and the companies in the Gateway, and £5m South East
LEP grant supported by University funding for a major new facility on the Knowledge Gateway.

We have invested in developing global research collaborations through a generous fund supporting
international visiting research fellows (61 fellows from 27 countries) and YERUN/YUFE mobility
exchanges.


                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

Creating an enabling environment for our growing research community is central to our research
strategy and we have invested in our physical infrastructure, providing collaborative research
spaces to encourage further interdisciplinary working. We have made significant capital
investments in our Business School building (19.6m), a new home for the Department of
Mathematical Sciences (£17.9m), a major extension to our Colchester Library (£7m) and a home
for our new School of Sports, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences with integrated research
facilities and the largest sports arena in the east of England (11.7m), together totalling £52m.

We have implemented a Research Information System (RIS), Ethics Review and Management
System (ERAMS), enhanced Institutional Repository increasing efficiency, effectiveness and
resilience for our research activities. In the coming three years investments are in place for
research computing (£1m), cyber security and the digital campus (£6m).

We initiated two operational investment funds in 2013 – one a capital fund for equipment and
infrastructure, and one a strategic fund for pump priming new research and enabling impact
activities (£3.2m over the REF period). We have made targeted investments including our state-of-
the art, open and available to all, experimental social science laboratory, ESSEXLab, opened in
2014. To identify priorities for capital funds, a strategic review of facilities across the University
was undertaken (2018) and a programme of support established.

Our Library, with its special collections and archives, is an integral part of our research culture and
delivery. Academic Liaison Librarians play an important role in the development of our researchers
through providing guidance on developing research skills and unlocking the potential of resources.
As well as sitting on our Research Committee and Open Research Forum, our library staff
spearhead European developments in Open Science. Investment in the Library to support digital
and physical research infrastructure has been accelerated during this last year to include
digitisation of objects and primary sources and implementation of a new digital platform, Janeway,
for publication of our open access student journal.

Strategies and support for generating research income

A key strategic aim in the next five years is to increase our research income with two major
priorities:

   1. Increase our success with larger grants; and
   2. Increase income from business and non-governmental sources.

To enable this we have enhanced our operational services, provide development opportunities for
our researchers and have built our collaborative research partnerships regionally, nationally and
globally (see section 2).

To support our grant capture activities, we have centralised our support for research through our
Research and Enterprise Office (REO), bringing together research, knowledge exchange and
governance. This has enabled a scaling of support to manage the increasing volume of research
applications (over 700 in 2019-20 compared to 390 in 2013-14) and annual research spend, from
£23m in 2013-14 to over £30m per annum in 2019-2020. Our REO team have strong links with our
Departments and provide tailored support, dependent on career stage, funding level and topic. For
larger-scale grants, we have an integrated approach with leadership from the PVC-R and Deputy
Deans Research together with REO colleagues. We have a robust policy to ensure provision of
host in-kind contribution and over this REF period have provided £10m contribution to our major
funded projects.

Our academics engage with external funders and take on roles as panel members (over 70 staff)
to help shape the future direction of national and international research. To improve income at the
department level, annual actions for income capture are put in place. Training opportunities are
available through our new Research Development Framework (see People section) and we have

                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
in place a centralised sift process for peer review assessment and development of proposals.

Enabling and Delivering Impact

To further embed impact across our academic community each Department now has a Director of
Impact. Our Impact Academy training programme for staff, delivered by external experts and
specialist staff from the University’s REO, covers all aspects of the research impact lifecycle and
offers opportunities for academic, research and professional services staff of all levels including
supporting researchers to commercialise research, e.g. iCure award 2020, new income generating
licences and previous spin-out UltraSoc now acquired by Siemens for £100m in 2020. To enhance
our delivery of impact and provide entry points into wider business networks our Enterprise Board
and Commercialisation Group have been in operation throughout this REF period.

Between 2014 and 2020 the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) has funded 215 projects
with a total value of ~£1m, enabling links with 173 different external organisations. Building
capacity to undertake impact is essential and an additional IAA ‘Business Boost’ Fund has enabled
PGRs and ECRs to gain experience and interact with stakeholders. Development of impact with
our international collaborators and stakeholders has been facilitated through the strategic use of
GCRF QR funding, e.g. new engagements in countries including Colombia, Mexico, Botswana,
South Africa, India, and Sri Lanka.

As a research community, we are looking to the future with confidence, optimism and vitality
underpinned by our commitment to excellence in research and education for the benefit of
individuals, communities and society.




                                                                                               Page 9
