Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  Institution: Newcastle University

  1. Context and mission
                                    Whether preventing crippling mitochondrial diseases, winning
                                    prizes for poetry and art, integrating renewable energy for zero-
                                    carbon transport, steering evidence-based rejuvenation of rural
                                    economies, making sense of real-time data for businesses and
                                    communities during the Covid-19 pandemic, or discovering a
                                    diet to reverse diabetes, Newcastle University is a place
                                    where physical and social cohesion means our research is
                                    connected - between diverse participants, to acknowledged
                                    excellence in teaching, with its end-users, and through our
                                    international campuses.
1.1. Newcastle University (NU) is both a globally-recognised research-intensive university
     and an anchor institution in the North East of England. From our origins in the 1830s, we
     have built a proud legacy of education, research and innovation orientated towards the
     region’s maritime, industrial, cultural, agricultural and healthcare needs. This legacy underpins
     our founding membership of the UK Russell Group and north-of-England N8 Research
     Partnership, and is represented today in thematic strengths in Ageing & Life Sciences, Data,
     OnePlanet, Cities & Place, and Culture & Creative Arts.
1.2. Operating from campuses in the UK (Newcastle upon Tyne and London), Singapore, and
     Malaysia, NU holds TEF Gold and hosts students from >140 countries studying >50 subject
     areas. Since 2014 the University has grown in turnover from £405M to £571M pa, research
     income from £93M to £109M pa, and student numbers from ~22,800 to >29,000, including
     ~2,000 postgraduate research (PGR) students. In parallel with £407M capital investment, NU
     has expanded its staff, with FTE for Teaching & Research and Research-only contracts
     increasing by 11% to 2,276, of whom all independent researchers are returned to REF2021.
1.3. The University has three Faculties: Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS), Medical
     Sciences (FMS), and Science, Agriculture and Engineering (SAgE). Each comprises academic
     units: 18 Schools with a disciplinary focus and 3 Institutes for researchers sharing
     methodologies. All are based in Newcastle city centre within a 15-minute walking radius. The
     Singapore campus (opened in 2008, with a 1000m2 Research & Innovation Institute added in
     2017) is focused on engineering. The Malaysia campus was opened in 2009 to provide a
     medical school. The London site, affiliated with the NU Business School in HaSS, opened in
     2015 near the City of London. We continue to diversify our disciplinary base, having re-
     established Physics in 2015, launched Sports & Exercise medicine in 2017, and incorporated
     Pharmacy and Medicine from Durham University in 2017. This submission to REF2021
     includes all UoAs returned in REF2014 and an additional submission in UoA20.
1.4. In 2019/20, NU contributed >£1bn to UK GDP and supported 16,390 UK jobs (source - Oxford
     Economics). NU is, by some margin, the largest research organisation in the North East of
     England, employing >6,000 staff (27% from >90 non-UK countries) and holding ~60% of the
     region’s HEI research funding. NU makes an indispensable contribution in a region where 38%
     of R&D spend is within universities (UK average ~25%) and 23% is within NU alone.
1.5. In international rankings, NU has achieved 78th in Leiden, 141st in QS, and 171st in THE. In
     THE Impact rankings NU is =11th globally and =3rd in the UK. Three strengths at NU –
     Sustainability, Ageing and the Rural Economy – have been awarded Queen’s Anniversary
     Prizes for Higher and Further Education.




                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  2. Strategy
                      Implementing our 2018 Vision & Strategy we created the first 10 Centres of
                      Research Excellence spanning all 3 Faculties, appointed the first 29 of 100
                      Academic Track Fellows, launched Skills and Enterprise Academies to
                      underpin our work on research culture and build on the success of Policy and
                      Global Challenges Academies, extended our portfolio of shared campuses and
                      living labs, and led major national initiatives with new industrial partners.


2.1. Strategic goals
2.1.1.From 2009-17, NU’s strategy set our ambition as a ‘civic university with a global reputation’
      and stressed our dual commitment to research and impact under the motto ‘Excellence with a
      Purpose’. Research was fostered within disciplinary units and in three cross-cutting ‘Societal
      Challenge Theme Institutes’ in Ageing, Social Renewal and Sustainability. Impact was
      catalysed through deep partnerships (e.g. with NHS Trusts, local government, Tyne & Wear
      Archives & Museums, and Siemens) embedded in shared city-centre campuses such as the
      International Centre for Life (with NHS) and Helix (£350M joint venture with Newcastle City
      Council and Legal & General).
2.1.2. In 2018, NU launched a new ‘Vision & Strategy’ that incorporates Research for Discovery
       & Impact integrated with Education for Life, Engagement & Place and Global strategies.
       This sets NU’s ambition for growth in research power (i.e. capacity) and intensivity (i.e.
       resources) to 2025. It specifies priority actions to capitalise on the alignment between NU’s
       attributes and UK imperatives, notably multidisciplinarity, diversity, capacity-building,
       economic leverage and internationalisation. NU has positioned itself at a scale that is big
       enough to sustain all the disciplines needed to address major challenges, but small enough to
       work cohesively across the University and with partners. Our future priorities are driven by this
       ‘one University, without walls’ philosophy, and captured in four guiding principles: ‘visibly
       leading’; ‘working together’; ‘[giving people] freedom & opportunity to succeed’; and
       ‘responding to challenges’, which we follow in service of strategic aims:
      • to nurture excellent research and
        innovation that expands fundamental
        knowledge, addresses societal and global
        needs, supports sustainable economic
        growth and promotes health and well-being;
      • to equip staff and students at all career
        stages with the skills to contribute to
        research and development in the academic,
        commercial, public and voluntary sectors;
        and
      • to foster inter-disciplinary approaches and
        partnerships with businesses and external
        agencies that extend the reach and impact
        of our research.
2.2. Enabling structures
2.2.1.Evolving from the three pan-university Societal Challenge Theme Institutes (2010-2017) and
      a portfolio of 38 University Research Centres based within disciplinary units, we have
      configured NU Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs). These epitomise our 2018
      Research Strategy, building upon existing research excellence - whether individual or
      collective - and growing challenge-led research teams that are diverse in disciplinary
      backgrounds, career stages, career pathways and protected characteristics and that draw
      upon all the resources of the institution and our partners. NUCoREs are developed ‘bottom

                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     up’ through workshops (>1,000 attendances to date) and iteration involving researchers and
     professional services colleagues from across the University. By definition, they do not align
     with singular REF UoAs, although several have evolved from mono- and multi-disciplinary
     networks and themes within Faculties.
2.2.2.The NUCoRE portfolio is dynamic, and we anticipate ~20 will be operating during the next
      REF cycle. Initial NUCoREs align strengths at NU with both Local and UK Industrial Strategies
      and/or funding agency priorities: Energy; Data; Cancer; Cities; Heritage; and Ageing
      Inequalities. Others represent new groupings to shape interdisciplinary responses to pressing
      challenges: Regulatory Science; Healthier Lives; Climate & Environmental Resilience; Rare
      Diseases. Several are already leading national and international networks, e.g. the EPSRC
      Centre for Energy Systems Integration, data visualisation for the Alan Turing Institute, the
      CRUK Cancer Centre, and NU leadership of 3 of the 24 European Rare Disease Networks.
2.2.3.Our ‘one-university’ approach draws on research excellence nurtured within Faculties, where
      agility to work across disciplines and consolidate diverse teams has been facilitated by
      simplifying structures. SAgE rationalised from 9 to 4 disciplinary Schools in 2017. FMS
      rationalised in 2019 from 6 to 3 Research Institutes and complemented these with faculty
      research Themes, some of which will develop into inter-faculty NUCoREs. In HaSS, 9
      disciplinary Schools are retained but 3 Research Institutes were formed to support Creative
      Arts & Practice, Social Sciences, and Humanities. The approach includes Professional
      Services, with previously devolved appointments consolidated into two line-managed
      networks: Research Strategy & Development (hosting the Newcastle Joint Research Office
      with NHS partners); and Business Development & Enterprise.
2.2.4.To facilitate impact, in addition to the approaches that are common across research-intensive
      institutions (4.1.5), NU has pioneered a distinctive model of National Innovation Centres
      (NICs), initiated for Data and Ageing in 2016 (£35M from BEIS/EPSRC/MRC and £35M from
      NU), and extended for Rural Enterprise in 2020 (£3.7M Research England Development fund).
      These provide domain-specific experts who connect researchers with businesses, and a
      physical environment in the award-winning Catalyst building on the Helix campus which is
      designed for academic-commercial-government-public ‘quadruple-helix’ co-location and
      collaboration. For example, NIC-Data has engaged ~5,000 individuals from ~400
      organisations resulting in 60 workshops and 40 collaborative projects.
2.2.5.To ensure that we nurture research culture and skillsets, we established NU Academies:
     •     The Policy Academy fosters engagement with policymakers for cohorts of academic
           and professional services staff, including working with NU’s seconded government
           advisors (Blyth, DfT; Stead and Dawson, DEFRA; Bonnett and Phillipson, BEIS). NU has
           notable strengths in evidence synthesis to inform policy, e.g. through our NIHR-funded
           portfolio (2.4.4).
     •     The Global Challenges Academy deploys ~£1.4M pa ODA-QR to support region- and
           topic-focused networks of NU researchers with partners in LMICs. It has hosted 570
           researchers at events, established networks (e.g. Ageing, Agrifood Security, Creative
           Practice for Development, Global Mental Health, HIV Stigma, Nutrition and Health,
           Sustainable Livelihoods, Tropical Peatlands, and Urban Futures), and supported >100
           grant applications including two of 12 UKRI GCRF Hubs awarded in 2019 (Living Deltas
           and Water Security & Sustainable Development; £35M), thereby connecting 94
           organisations from 25 countries and drawing on expert architects, artists, engineers,
           geographers, historians, physical scientists, and social scientists.
     •     The Enterprise Academy imbues skills for commercial engagement and impact
           amongst professional services and academic colleagues.
     •     The Skills Academy leads the development of researchers at all career stages in
           academia and beyond, and the evolution of our inclusive research culture (3.2).



                                                                                           Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
2.3. Enabling governance
2.3.1.Responsibility for vitality and sustainability of research and impact rests with the University
      and Faculty Research & Innovation Committees, chaired by the Pro Vice Chancellor
      (Research Strategy & Resources) and Faculty Deans of Research & Innovation, respectively.
      To facilitate knowledge exchange and the ‘one-university’ goals of the NU Vision & Strategy,
      we appointed University Deans with cross-sector experience, e.g. for: Innovation & Business;
      Research Culture & Strategy; Culture & Creative Arts; Lifelong Learning & Professional
      Practice; and Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. Dedicated groups co-ordinate alignment with
      UNSDGs, Knowledge Exchange & Policy, and Intellectual Property & Spin-outs.
2.3.2.Supporting best practice and thought leadership in research integrity and reproducibility,
      we appointed an expert convenor and Special Interest Group for Ethics & Integrity, joined the
      UK Reproducibility Network, maintain policies and procedures compliant with the Concordat
      to Support Research Integrity, subscribe to UKRIO, and are members of the Russell Group’s
      Research Integrity Forum. Our Research Management System is integrated with ethical
      approval procedures and includes a check of participation in appropriate on-line or face-to-
      face training. Faculties conduct an annual audit of ethics compliance. In this REF cycle we
      completed 12 investigations of allegations of research misconduct resulting in three
      recommendations for additional training, two published errata, and two retractions of
      publications.
2.3.3.Committed to open research, we implemented technologies to facilitate access to
      publications and data, supported by specialist library staff. NU’s Current Research
      Information System allows easy upload to the e-prints repository (>376k views and >41k
      downloads by >168k users in 2019). RCUK/UKRI and COAF open-access funding of £5.2M
      in this REF cycle, subsidised by NU funds, has increased outputs fulfilling open-access criteria
      from 73% to 88%. NU subscribes to Knowledge Unlatched (>1500 open-access books and 30
      journals), Open Book Publishers (186 titles), the Open Library of Humanities (27 journals) and
      Ubiquity Press. NU has invested in a Research Data Repository powered by Figshare (48k
      views and 9k downloads in first year) to make data FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable
      and reusable).
2.4. Enabling Partnerships
2.4.1.Consistent with our research being connected with its end-users, in Higher Education
      Business and Community Interaction Survey 2019, NU scored particularly well for cultural
      engagement (museums and exhibitions, 4th in UK), spin-out company formation (5th), and
      collaborative research value (NHS and commercial, 3rd).
2.4.2.Regionally, NU has joint governance structures with the CQC-rated-outstanding acute and
      mental health NHS Trusts (one of 8 NIHR Academic Health Science Centres), the City Council,
      and the North of Tyne Combined Authority, and is represented in the North East Local
      Enterprise Partnership (NELEP) and Chamber of Commerce amongst many other
      organisations. NU runs the Great North Museum and Hatton Gallery with Tyne & Wear
      Archives & Museums, and is a partner in Seven Stories - The National Centre for Children’s
      Books. Collaborative programmes initiated by NU include Newcastle City Futures, interacting
      with 190 organisations and 145,000 citizens on 70 demonstrator projects leveraging £22M in
      funding. There is also a highly popular programme of events to engage the public with NU
      research.
2.4.3.NU has numerous joint programmes with regional universities, notably: the Northern
      Accelerator ERDF/CCF award to four North East universities which has underpinned the
      region’s growth of spin-out companies (NU formed 18 spin-outs since 2013/14, raising £8m
      investment and now employing 173 people with £7m turnover); the Arrow ERDF programme
      to facilitate collaboration with SMEs; the AHRC Creative Fuse partnership supporting creative,
      digital and IT firms in a sector where the region is the fastest growing in the UK; and several
      shared doctoral training programmes (3.2.2). NU also collaborates across the North of
      England, notably as lead for the UKRI-sponsored Northern Health Sciences Alliance and
      founding member of the N8 Research Partnership (with Durham, Lancaster, Leeds,

                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
      Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and York). Major N8 programmes include the £16M AgriFood
      Resilience Programme, £7.5M Policing Research Partnership with 11 forces, £1.25M
      DecarboN8 programme to accelerate adoption of low-carbon transport, and shared high
      performance computing and centre of excellence in Computationally Intensive Research.
2.4.4.Nationally, NU’s leadership is exemplified in Table 1.

 Table 1. NU contribution to national assets

 RCUK/UKRI                        NIHR                             Others

 EPSRC Centre for Energy          Academic Health Sciences         Arts Council National Portfolio
 Systems Integration              Centre                           organisations: Bloodaxe
 EPSRC - National Innovation      Applied Research                 Books; Northern Stage;
 Centre for Data                  Collaboration North East &       NewBridge Project; National
                                  North Cumbria                    Centre for Children’s
 EPSRC UK Collaboratorium                                          Literature (Seven Stories)
 for Research on Infrastructure   Biomedical Research Centre
 of Cities                        (2nd renewal 2017)               Alan Turing Institute
 EPSRC Digital Economy            Blood and Transplant             Cancer Research UK - Cancer
 Research Centre                  Research Unit                    Centre
 Innovate UK/Cell and Gene        Centre for Technology            Faraday Institution
 Therapy Catapult – Northern      Assessment Review                Fera – Institute for Agri-Food
 Alliance Advanced Therapy        Centre for Translational         Research and Innovation
 Treatment Centre                 Research in Public Health        Health Data Research UK –
 Innovate UK – Driving the        (Fuse); School of Public         Northern hub
 Electric Revolution Centre       Health Research                  National Agritechnology
 MRC - National Innovation        Clinical Trials Unit             Centres for Crop Health and
 Centre for Ageing                Health Protection Research       Protection and Innovation and
 MRC Centre for Ageing &          Unit                             Excellence in Livestock
 Vitality                         In vitro Diagnostics Co-         National Centre for
 MRC/EPSRC Molecular              operative (MIC)                  Cybersecurity – Academic
 Pathology Node                                                    Centre of Excellence
                                  Innovation Observatory (with
 MRC Centre for                   NICE)                            Nesta Creative Industries
 Neuromuscular Diseases                                            Policy & Evidence Centre
                                  Policy Research Units:
 MRC/Versus Arthritis Centre      • Behavioural Science            Versus Arthritis - Research
 for Integrated Research on       • Older People and Frailty       into Inflammatory Arthritis
 Musculoskeletal Ageing                                            Centre
                                  • Public Health
 Research England E3 – Hub                                         Wellcome Trust - Centre for
                                  Research Design Service,
 for Biotechnology in the Built                                    Mitochondrial Research
                                  North East and North Cumbria
 Environment                                                       (renewed 2016)
                                  School of Primary Care
 Research England - National      Research
 Innovation Centre for Rural
 Enterprise


2.4.5.Internationally, in addition to extensive research collaborations (57% of NU outputs have
      international co-authors), NU holds >240 formal partnerships across 46 countries and
      disproportionately high EU funding (15% at peak vs national average 11%; 173 EU partners;
      e.g. leading 3 of 24 European Rare disease Networks, two large IMI programmes [LITMUS;
      MOBILISE-D] and prominent in two transport consortia [ECTRI; ERTICO]). A smaller number
      of strategic institutional partnerships are prioritised where they play to NU strengths and/or
      to our geographical focus defined by the NU Global Challenges Academy (2.2.5) and
      campuses in South East Asia:

                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       •    Monash University, Australia (e.g. Research England I3 award for joint fellowships);
       •    Xiamen University, China (joint Confucius Institute; founding members of the University
            Consortium of the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road);
       •    University of Groningen, The Netherlands (20 shared EU projects, notably in Ageing
            and place-based research);
       •    Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and - through the NU-led GCRF Hub for Water
            Security and Sustainability (£17.3M) and additional joint fellowships - with a network of
            Indian institutions, tackling UNSDGs;
       •    through NU campuses in Singapore and Malaysia with University of Malaya, Nanyang
            Technological University (NTU), National University of Singapore, and the Singapore
            Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR)(60 joint PhD studentships in
            Singapore; 3 visiting professors at NTU in Ageing and Energy);
       •    RENKEI Network with Osaka and Kyoto Universities, Japan (NU leads on Climate
            Change).
2.4.6.For industry partnerships we prioritise those held by the National Innovation Centres (2.2.4)
      and deeper relationships with companies who share our ‘living labs’, including Siemens
      (Principal Partnership status, one of 12 universities globally), Dyson (EPSRC Prosperity
      Partnership Fund, £5.5M), Procter & Gamble (Accelerating Circular Economy centre
      sponsored by North of Tyne Combined Authority, £2.7M), Nissan (ISCF wave 3 Driving the
      Electric Revolution, £33M), Northumbrian Water (digital twinning for flood management),
      Northern Gas Networks and Northern Powergrid (Integrated Transport Electricity Gas
      Research Laboratory – InTEGReL, a shared Gateshead campus), British Engines (Tyne
      Subsea pressure testing facility, £9M), and Legal & General (Helix campus). With pharma
      companies, we hold strategic partnership programmes with Astex, GSK (EMINENT £8M MRC
      programme), and Genentech as well as multiple joint projects with Pfizer (n=8 EU projects),
      Novartis (n=9), AstraZeneca (n=5), and Janssen (n=8). NU has frequently been in the top 10
      in the UK for Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs).




                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  3. People
                         ‘’I applied to NUAcT to start my own independent lab at a world-class university
                         which supports the increasingly interdisciplinary nature of research and
                         maintains a collegiate and inclusive environment. The fellowship will give me
                         the time, space and resources to establish a really exciting program.’’ Dr Adam
                         Wollman, NUAcT Fellow 2019


3.1. Staffing strategy
3.1.1. The NU researcher community has grown since 2014
       to: 1,922 PGR students (+14% by 2018); 1,142
       postdoctoral research associates and assistants; 1,288
       independent researchers (+15%); 552 technicians and
       technologists (+12%); and 1,318 professional service
       colleagues who contribute 514 FTE to research (Cubane
       data, 2018). NU emphasises parity of esteem for
       academic, professional, and non-academic research
       roles; accordingly, and to increase diversity in our
       leadership, we have appointed 10 full and 14 visiting
       Professors of Practice non-academic experience
       including local government, education and business.
       Notably, in 2016 NU was awarded both a unique Regius
       Chair in Ageing and a UNESCO Chair in cultural property
       protection.
3.1.2. The UK ambition to grow R&D spending to 2.4% of GDP will require ~60% increase in active
       researchers, mostly outside of academia. Arguably, the limiting factor is retention rather than
       recruitment. Our strategic goal by 2025 is to grow researcher numbers at each career stage
       by 20% and to increase retention in research for >10 years by 60%. Our approach follows the
       inclusive guiding principle of giving people ‘freedom and opportunity to succeed’, emphasises
       choice of career pathways across sectors, and invests in innovative posts to overcome career
       bottlenecks for retention (e.g. 3.2.4).
3.1.3. The ‘guiding principles’ of our Research Strategy speak directly to the further development of
       research culture at NU (see 2.1.2).
3.2. Researcher development
3.2.1. Taught programmes at NU are research-led and often include substantive research projects.
       To inspire students to participate we innovated with ‘discover research enrichment weeks’,
       attracting >650 undergraduates to explore research topics and careers, led by multi-
       disciplinary NUCoREs.
3.2.2. Doctoral training is overseen by a Doctoral College and delivered in cohort programmes (e.g.
       Table 2) supplemented by individual studentships, including 58 PhDs sponsored by the NU
       ‘Research Excellence Academy’ scheme (REA, £14.6M, 2014-19; 4.1.3). Bespoke training is
       encouraged through 1+3 year, 3.5 year and part-time options. A comprehensive PGR
       development programme is linked to the University’s e-portfolio system, highlighting
       employability skills and attributes within the Graduate Skills Framework and imbuing the
       importance of research culture, ethics, integrity, and inclusivity. Collective activities include
       student-led annual PGR conferences and a science magazine. In the Postgraduate Research
       Experience Survey (PRES, March-May 2019), NU scored highly for participation (53% versus
       42% nationally) and overall satisfaction (83.9% versus 80.7% nationally), led the Russell
       Group for Supervision and Progression, and was top-quartile nationally for 7 of 9 domains.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

       Table 2. RCUK/UKRI CDTs and DTPs at NU
         • AHRC Northern Bridge
         • BBSRC DTP
         • ESRC Northern Ireland and North East
         • MRC Discovery Medicine North
       NERC:
         • One Planet
         • IAPETUS (Environmental and Earth sciences)
         • Data Risk and Environmental Analytical Methods
       EPSRC:
         • Cloud Computing for Big Data
         • Digital Civics
         • Geospatial Systems
         • Diamond Science & Technology
         • STREAM (Water)
         • Molecular Sciences for Medicine
         • Renewable Energy Northeast Universities
         • Water Infrastructure & Resilience
         • Offshore Wind Energy and the Environment
         • Sustainable Electric Propulsion
3.2.3. Post-doctoral training and career development is overseen by a dedicated committee. NU
       is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and was
       one of the first awarded a HR Excellence in Research Award by Vitae in 2010 (renewed twice
       since). Mentoring is supported by a NU scheme, postdoc societies in each Faculty, and staff
       networks (3.4.2). A dedicated Careers Advisor supports postdoctoral associates, including
       through a Transitions programme for those seeking careers in other sectors. NU has invested
       in retaining this cohort through the REA (42 posts; 4.1.3), Faculty Fellowships (38 posts) and
       bridging funds (>150 awards) and has recently converted >200 fixed-term to open-ended
       contracts.
3.2.4. Recognising the career bottleneck for postdoctoral researchers transitioning to
       independence, and their needs for mentorship and time to develop a research niche, NU
       launched Newcastle University Research Fellowships (NURFs) in 2014, making 30
       appointments (27 in biomedicine and 3 in computing). Such was their success (80% retained
       in research) that NU committed £30M from 2018 for a Newcastle University Academic Track
       (NUAcT) scheme to recruit 100 fellows over 5 years. Each fellow has 5 years FTE to focus on
       research - with start-up funds, a PhD studentship and support for mobility and momentum, e.g.
       during parental leave - before default progression to a faculty post. This progression is also
       offered to equivalent externally-funded fellows. NUAcT is distinct from similar UK schemes
       since recruitment will be sustained long-term, the cohort encompasses all disciplines, joint
       appointments with external partners are encouraged (‘NUPAcT’ fellowships, e.g. with Astex
       and Dyson; and the Research England I3 award for ‘NUMAcT’ fellowships with Monash
       University), and there is a focus on research culture, e.g. with an equality, diversity and
       inclusion and workplace culture statement assessed for every candidate. NUAcT is remarkably
       popular, with >1,400 applications from ~70 countries to the first two annual calls.
3.2.5. The NU Organisational Development unit supports researchers making the transition to
       leadership. A PI development programme introduces leadership and management; PI
       Essentials clarifies roles and responsibilities under the Concordat (70 attendees in 2019); and
       Professors’ Induction facilitates networking amongst NU leaders. Since 2018, 86 colleagues
       have participated in leadership training provided by blended in-house/out-sourced
       group/individual training and coaching.
3.2.6. For technicians, NU has a dedicated oversight group and TechNet local network, has signed
       the Technicians’ Commitment, is affiliated with the National Technicians Development Centre
       and hosted the Technician Partnership Conference in 2020. NU technical staff have held
                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
      grants as PI, won the 2019 Papin prize at the UK HE Technician Summit and been shortlisted
      for the THE Outstanding Technician of the Year.
3.2.7. Promotion is supported on research & innovation as well as teaching & research pathways,
       with ~10% applying each year and >70% successful. As signatories of the San Francisco
       Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) we do not use journal impact factors, nor do
       we use REF internal or external quality assessments, to assess individuals’ performance.
3.2.8. Sabbaticals have been taken by 268 (>20%) academic colleagues in this REF cycle.
3.3. Researcher wellbeing
3.3.1. NU policies and services in support of researcher health and wellbeing include an employee
       assistance programme (EAP) to ensure staff and families access services such as
       occupational health and counselling; EAP responded to >970 helpline calls last year. Policies
       support flexible and remote working, with 328 researchers working part-time (+15% since
       2014). NU was the first university to sign the ‘Employer with Heart’ charter which supports staff
       who have premature babies, has removed the qualifying service period for Emergency Leave
       and Time off to Care for Dependents, and joined Employers for Carers.
3.4. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
3.4.1. EDI is a core value of the University. NU’s Equality Strategy is a public commitment to
       develop a fully inclusive community of talented staff and students from all sectors of society
       equally. It sets out how we will follow best practice and fulfil duties defined by legislation. EDI
       principles are embedded at all levels, with implementation supported by a university Dean and
       a Head of EDI, and by faculty EDI Directors and Diversity Officers. The EDI team contributed
       to the writing and implementation of the NU REF2021 Code of Practice.
3.4.2. Delivery mechanisms include an EDI Fund (35 projects funded since 2017), provision of
       training (e.g. on unconscious bias, active bystander, and white privilege), a Returners
       Programme (£150k annually, supporting 19 female researchers to date to regain momentum
       following extended leave), and staff networks (NUWomen, NUParents, BAME network,
       Disability Interest Group, Rainbow@Ncl and a nascent NUCarers network).
3.4.3. NU is viewed as a sector leader for gender equality and inclusion as evidenced by external
       funding (OfS, HEFCE Catalyst Fund, Wellcome) and engagement activities. Earlier success in
       increasing the proportion of females amongst early-career researchers (ECRs) is now flowing
       through to higher grades (Figure). 30% of our Professors are female (Russell Group average
       25%), as are 41% of Heads of Unit (up from 23% in 2013-14), although we still have a priority
       to accelerate closing the gender pay gap (GPG, which reduced for 4y in succession to a mean
       of 18.1% in 2020, ranked 8th amongst English Russell Group universities; GPG for non-clinical
       professors has fallen from 4.5% to 2.9%). NU was awarded institutional Athena Swan Silver
       status in 2016 and 2020. FMS is one of only 5 nationally to hold a Faculty Silver Athena Swan
       award and we have 12 Bronze awards in other Faculties.




                                                                                                  Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
3.4.4. Our commitment to EDI goes beyond gender. We became a Stonewall Global Equalities
       Champion (2016), a member of the Business Disability Forum (2017), joined the Race Equality
       Charter (2019), and provide Sanctuary Scholarships and support for At-Risk academics. Since
       2014, we have invested £2.25M (£874k for research facilities) to improve access for colleagues
       with a disability. Representation of colleagues identifying as BAME has increased amongst
       ECRs but is an outstanding priority for the professoriate (Figure).


  4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
                               Newcastle University’s city centre campus spans everything from a
                               university art gallery and museum, hospitals for adults and children, a
                               growing innovation district, the most detailed real-time urban sensor
                               system in Europe, and experimental water drainage systems, all within
                               a 15-minute walking radius. The resulting physical and social cohesion
                               is key to our success.

4.1. Enabling finance
4.1.1. Transparent Approach to Costing (TRAC) methodology demonstrates that spending on
       research has increased since 2014 from £166M to £212M p.a., with £105M income from
       external grants and contracts, £29M from QR, ~£8M in other research-related income, and a
       ‘cross-subsidy’ of 33% from non-research related income. For PGR students, expenditure has
       increased from £39M to £57M with income of £28M and cross-subsidy of 52%. Exceptional
       income from philanthropy and licencing of intellectual property has increased, in particular
       with multi-million pound donations in support of architecture and design, ageing, environmental
       sustainability, and neuroscience, and monetisation of licence fees from Rucaparib, one of two
       approved anti-cancer drugs developed at NU.
4.1.2. NU’s capital investment programme draws on the accumulated operating surplus of the
       University and relatively low borrowing (£150M EIB loan). During this REF cycle NU has
       committed £255M to capital projects involving research (4.2).
4.1.3. University-wide non-capital investments of >£100M include: a Research Excellence
       Academy (REA, £14.6M, 2014-19) directed at ECRs (3.2); a Research Investment Fund (RIF,
       £30M, 2014-21) directed at targeted pump-priming, senior appointments and infrastructure
       (e.g. seeding the Research England E3 £8M award for the Hub for Biotechnology in the Built
       Environment with Northumbria University); the NUAcT scheme (£30M, 2018-23; 3.2.4); a
       university-level Research & Innovation budget (£5.6M, 2014-20) directed at cross-disciplinary
       activities and external partnerships including NU research clusters (Societal Challenge Theme
       Institutes, University Research Centres, NUCoREs (2.2), NU Academies (2.2.5), and N8
       Research Partnership (2.4.3)); and support for the National Innovation Centres (£20M, 2017-
       2027).
4.1.4. Faculty investments include c.£750k p.a. in pump-priming, impact acceleration, EDI and
       other initiatives that leverage external portfolio awards of ~£3M p.a. (e.g. Wellcome Institutional
       Strategic Support and Translational Partnership funds).
4.1.5. For Knowledge Exchange and accelerating Impact, the Higher Education Innovation Fund
       (HEIF, ~£4.6M p.a.) is deployed proactively to facilitate delivery of our Knowledge Exchange
       (2016-2021) and Engagement & Place strategies and supports:
         the NU Business Development and Enterprise team (technology transfer, consultancy,
          company creation, corporate engagement, and KTPs);
         projects with businesses (2.4.6), notably creating shared facilities (4.2.1) and
          consolidating clusters for ISCF and Strength-in-Places funds (e.g. ISCF wave 3 project
          Driving the Electric Revolution with Nissan and a host of industrial partners; North-East
          partners proposed this challenge to BEIS and NU now leads it nationally);



                                                                                                 Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
         impact acceleration accounts (IAAs) supplementing ESRC and EPSRC IAAs and MRC
          Proximity-to-Discovery and Confidence-in-Concept funds. Managed with external
          advisors, activities include secondments to and from industry, pump-priming ideas to
          impact, an Action-for-Impact immersive training programme for researchers, and
          challenge-focused workshops with industry;
         engagement with policymakers, e.g. through the NU Policy Academy (2.2.5), and
          subsidised in 2019-20 by £1M QR-SPF from Research England which will support a new
          Policy & Evidence Hub.
4.1.6. Research reproducibility and data repositories are discussed in 2.3.
4.2. Infrastructure
4.2.1.NU’s campus developments reflect the strategic emphasis on working across disciplines and
      cheek-by-jowl with external partners. For example:
       • a joint venture with Newcastle City Council (NCC) and Legal & General on the £350M
         ‘Newcastle Helix’ (previously ‘Science Central’) 24-acre city-centre innovation campus.
         NCC has opened the Core, Lumen and Biosphere incubators and NU has opened the
         £1.4M Key building (engagement space for data science), £58M Urban Sciences Building
         (computing science, Siemens Mindsphere digital twinning lab, data visualisation suite as
         lead for Alan Turing Institute, and £2M energy storage living lab), £40M prize-winning
         Catalyst (National Innovation Centres and NIHR Innovation Observatory), and £33M
         Frederick Douglass Centre (education and conferences);
       • purchase from the NHS of the 29-acre Campus for Ageing & Vitality (£8M), where existing
         university facilities for multi-modal imaging, ageing research and CRESTAs (Clinics for
         Research and Service in Themed Assessment) will be extended as a living lab for healthy
         ageing innovation and substantial future expansion of multidisciplinary research;
       • construction, adjacent to the medical Faculty and Royal Victoria Infirmary, of the £39M
         Dame Margaret Barbour building and £21M Sports Centre, housing education and
         research facilities for sports & exercise medicine, human nutrition and psychology;
       • co-development with British Engines of the Camperdown facility north of Newcastle as
         part of the Neptune Centre for Subsea and Offshore Engineering (with one of Europe’s
         only hyperbaric chambers for deep sea component testing, £9M);
       • reconfiguration and modernisation of listed buildings including the Sir Henry Daysh
         complex (~£60M) for Geography, Politics & Sociology and Architecture, Planning and
         Landscape, and the Armstrong Building (£20M) for Arts & Cultures (including Music),
         History, Classics & Archaeology, and marine science;
       • refurbishments including £3.8M Hatton Gallery (with Heritage Lottery Fund), £5.5M
         Wolfson Childhood Cancer Centre, £3M immunology facilities, £2M Drummond Building
         OnePlanet facility (shared earth sciences resources for archaeology, chemistry, biology,
         geology, and geosciences), £2M state-of-the-art protein mass spectrometry, £1.8M
         Devonshire Building (co-locating synthetic biology, bioinformatics, and microbial biology),
         and £2.5M testing rigs for electric motors installed as part of the UK Rail Research and
         Innovation Network.
4.2.2. NU hosts many additional specialised facilities and resources, including:
       • two research farms in Northumberland providing living-lab facilities for livestock welfare,
         crop diagnostic monitoring, the Palace Leas pasture experiment (run since 1896), and
         sustainable energy solutions;
       • bespoke archives, museums and performance spaces, including the University Library
         rare book and archives collections (IL Archive Service Accredited)(Gertrude Bell Archive
         awarded UNESCO International Memory of the World status, 2017), Great North Museum

                                                                                           Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
         Hancock (world-class archaeology, natural history, geology and ethnography collections),
         Hatton Gallery (NU Fine Art named one of eight most influential art schools globally, 2019),
         and National Centre for children’s literature (through the Vital North partnership with Seven
         Stories);
      • Two marine research stations at Cullercoats and Blyth, the latter housing a Cavitation
        Tunnel for propellor development and our seagoing research vessel;
      • the Urban Observatory (part of the UK Collaboratorium for Research on Infrastructure and
        Cities), providing the largest set of publicly available real-time urban data in the UK;
      • a powerful constellation of joint NHS and university resources for translational research to
        improve health and care, spanning molecular, clinical and societal research (see 2.4.4);
      • and finally, the landscape and heritage of the North East, where researchers can study
        floods in Northumberland, Hadrian’s Wall, marine and coastal ecology, or the dark skies
        of Kielder. Vitality and sustainability rediscovered!




                                                                                             Page 12
