Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Kingston University

 1. Context and mission

Kingston University’s mission is to foster knowledge and learning that benefits society. Our
institutional approach aligns research, knowledge exchange, professional practice and teaching
within a framework of impact, supporting staff and students to work collaboratively on key
challenges in areas such as health, technology, creativity and culture, business and
entrepreneurship. Research underpins the University’s response to various national agendas,
including education and skills, and economic and social recovery after COVID-19. Equality,
diversity and inclusion underpin our approach to researcher career development and the promotion
of an inclusive research culture, driving institutional strategies to support staff and students. We
currently hold the Athena Swan and Race Equality Charter Bronze awards and a number of
diversity awards in recognition of work with staff and students. The University is a member of the
University Alliance.

Since achieving university status in 1992 Kingston has continued to develop its research profile
while maintaining its enduring commitment to professional, vocational and applied education and
scholarship rooted both in its polytechnic history (1970) and its origins as Kingston Technical
Institute (1899), subsequently incorporating Kingston School of Art and Gipsy Hill Teacher Training
College. To enhance development in health and social care education and research, in 1995
Kingston began a mutually beneficial joint faculty arrangement with St George’s, University of
London. In agreement between both universities, research in UoA3 (Allied Health Professions,
Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy) is returned by Kingston. Cross-disciplinary research between
the two institutions is strongly supported with co-location of staff on the St George’s campus, joint
collaborative grants such as NIHR CLAHRC/ARC, joint events, prizes and PhD student
supervision.

Located in the Royal Borough of Kingston-upon-Thames, south-west of London, Kingston’s
research and impact has benefitted from access to strategic central London networks and civic and
distributed regional partners across the south east and south west. The University makes a
substantial contribution to the local borough through income generation and employment. In
2014/5 the University generated £921M and supported 12,500 jobs across the UK (BiGGAR
Economics Report, 2016). Our civic purpose is aligned to our geographical location and we
maximise the benefits of our distributed campus and academic and cultural facilities for research,
public and cultural benefit and civic engagement. In 2020 the University opened its publicly
accessible Townhouse building, designed as a ‘civic gateway’ to enhance public and community
access. The University has worked closely with the Royal Borough of Kingston and our Local
Enterprise Partnership on post-Covid recovery, utilising our research and knowledge exchange to
that end.

Since 2014 the University has undergone reorganisation, restructuring both its academic portfolio
and its professional and support services between 2017-19. It now has four Faculties: Health,
Social Care & Education (which includes the joint faculty in health and social care, with St.
George’s University, London); Business and Social Sciences; Science, Engineering and
Computing; and Kingston School of Art. This consolidation aimed to stimulate interdisciplinarity,
diversification and growth in emergent fields, extend research quality, and more closely align
teaching and research. In particular, reorganisation has supported research integration and
development in areas such as allied health, digital and cyber-security technologies, business and
social science, and the creative and cultural industries. Support services for research, impact and
business development were also re-aligned to underpin these developments.

External research income amounts to over £25M, with major new awards from EU Horizon 2020,
National Institute for Health Research, Innovate UK, NordForsk and EPSRC. The University has
attracted significant external research income from a variety of other sources including Health



                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Education England, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust and AHRC, as
well as achieving almost £2.5M of KTP value awarded (£1.87M income).

Kingston University has an academic staff of 937 (801FTE), similar to 2014. REF 2021 submission
comprises 11 Units of Assessment (9 in 2014). 2021 Units of Assessment are: UoA3, 4, 11, 12, 17,
19, 23, 27, 30, 32, 33.

               Staffing                         REF 2014         REF 2021
               Total staff FTE                  804              801
               Staff submitted (FTE) (SRR)      139              368.25
               Staff submitted (%)              17%              44.2%

The University has a global population of 15,767 FTE students (HESA, 2019/20). Our PGR
community is 391 FTE, which is 2.5% of our global student population, an increase from 260 FTE
in 2008 (1.3%) and from 316 in 2013/4 (1.6%). In the current period, postgraduate research has
benefited from over seventy studentships with a combined value of over £4M awarded through the
University’s membership of the TECHNE Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and the London
Doctoral Design Centre, both funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council. The University
has further funded over one hundred full studentships across the 11 Units of Assessment (UoAs),
with a combined value of almost £5M. In 2019 it introduced a BAME-specific studentship initiative
with 4 fully-funded awards annually. There have been well over 500 PhD completions during the
cycle.

 2. Strategy

Since 2014 the University has sought to expand research, investing in the development of people
and the support of high-quality research with demonstrable impact. Kingston’s research
infrastructure has evolved since RAE2008 when results and feedback identified the need to
enhance and manage quality and performance. Our strategy for 2014 was selective, focussing
specifically on quality research. Building from 2014, research, knowledge exchange and impact
strategies have targeted building capacity and capability and developing the foundations of an
integrated and sustainable research, knowledge exchange and impact culture in support of KEF
and REF. We have sought to develop:

   •   effective research, knowledge exchange and impact leadership
   •   increased collaboration through externally funded opportunities
   •   the supporting governance, research integrity and reporting frameworks
   •   an integrated performance and career development framework for staff and doctoral
       training
   •   investment in our research student community and growth of the Graduate Research
       School (GRS)

Kingston’s future plans are based on:

   •   extending capability and capacity in research and knowledge exchange with a heightened
       emphasis on research impact addressing civic, local, national and international needs
   •   strengthening the sustainability of our research environment through leadership
       development and research centre infrastructure, to stimulate existing and emerging areas
       of research aligned to national and global priorities
   •   supporting the academic community to continuously develop their research, impact and
       knowledge exchange through our inclusive academic performance and career development
       framework (see Section 3)
   •   developing an inclusive research culture, built on mechanisms such as our REF 2021 Code
       of Practice and the delivery of targets and outcomes deriving from our access and
       participation commitments, charter mark activity and PSED equality objectives


                                                                                          Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Research is an equal priority across all Faculties, although the scale and maturity of research
specialism differs according to particular fields and disciplines, for example in areas of practice-
based and vocational research and in newly emerging interdisciplinary areas. Our Research
Centres, broadly aligned to Units, provide leadership, foster collaboration and advance research
by: supporting the range and quality of research outputs through peer review and strategic insight
at disciplinary level; enhancing the delivery of impact through externally-facing activity and
partnership; providing a scholarly community, mentorship, practical assistance for funding
applications and the design of research activity for staff and PGRs; fostering productive
interdisciplinary exchange. In 2018/9 we undertook an institutional review of research centres to
ensure their alignment with strategic objectives; appropriate sector bench-marking, sustainability
and succession planning; and strategies for growth, income-generation and investment post-REF
2021, leading to measures implemented in next cycle. Faculties also support the development of
more informal Research Groups, often allied to Centres, used to advance emerging research
agendas, connect research and teaching, and develop impact. Centres and Groups are described
in detail in the Unit Environment statements.

             Kingston University Centres of Research Excellence

             Centre for Health and Social Care Research

             Interdisciplinary Hub for the Study of Health and Age-related Conditions

             Digital Information Research Centre

             Centre for Engineering, Environment and Society Research

             Small Business Research Centre

             Centre for Research in Communities, Identities and Difference

             Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy

             Contemporary Art Research Centre

             Modern Interiors Research Centre
             Visual and Material Culture Research Centre


Interdisciplinarity characterises a considerable proportion of research growth since REF 2014,
and is especially fostered through Kingston’s practical and applied discipline base. This includes
social challenges such as ageing, learning disabilities and end of life care; patient advocacy;
inclusive and sustainable creative education; research aligned to current business need,
manufacturing and product development (for example, in the development of new construction
materials with industry or new computer technologies); research linked to new business start-ups;
and research contributing to culture and creativity through, for example, curation and exhibitions.

Commitment to public and community engagement is an important catalyst for research and
knowledge exchange. Alongside sustained partnership with the museum and gallery sector (such
as the Institute of Contemporary Arts and Design Museum), we have long-standing programmes of
cultural and community engagement through the University-owned Stanley Picker Gallery and
Dorich House Museum. Town House is a ‘civic’ gateway for a wide variety of public interactions
and supports research collaborations such as the University’s Muybridge archive partnership with
Kingston Museum. We lead the Public and Patient Involvement Theme for the NIHR South West
London ARC.

Our commitment to inclusive learning informs research activity. We have a strong track record in
inclusive and participatory research design leading to impact, for example through our research
centre for applied health and social care; and foster a strong commitment to social justice and

                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
advocacy leading to numerous third sector partnerships. We have further invested in the policy-
facing impact of our research to increase its reach and significance. This has been underlined
through our Covid-19 response, which has strengthened collaboration with local and civic partners
to ensure sustained research impact in aid of economic and social recovery.

In the current period, notably since 2018, we have centralised our processes for research
integrity, and invested in open research through improved infrastructure and staff engagement.
Open Access initiatives have included: dissemination of research through freely available podcasts
and electronic publication of books, essays and lectures under Creative Commons licence; sharing
open source code and data sets and developing open source ‘wiki’ projects; public access
digitisation projects with external partners. Open Science practices are being incorporated into our
Graduate Research School training; Kingston has two Open Science Ambassadors to the Centre
for Open Science, and a University-wide Open Research Journal Club. The Kingston University
Principles for the Use of Research Metrics is aligned with DORA (San Francisco Declaration on
Research Assessment). We encourage staff to disseminate their research in the widest variety of
formats (including practice research) and publishing routes. Researchers are free to publish in
journals of their choice.

 3. People

Staffing Strategy

The achievements, development and recognition of staff are core to our vision and mission; our
staffing strategy aims to develop an inclusive and diverse environment in which staff performance
is well supported.
Academic progression and promotion: we have recently piloted a revised process for promotion
to Associate Professor to ensure a rigorous evidence-based approach using our Academic Career
Development Framework (Domains, described below) in Research, Learning & Teaching,
Business Knowledge Transfer & International, and Leadership & Management. This is
underpinned by our 2015-20 research strategy and the KU22 strategic plan which maintains
commitments to strong research leadership, effective research support structures and effective
mechanisms for PGR and ECR training.
Flexible working: we are further developing a flexible working policy in light of Covid-19, piloting
new ways of agile working.
Study leave policy: our policies support managers in granting discretionary study leave for
research and scholarship.
Support for staff with caring responsibilities: our policy allows for 5 days paid leave to care for
dependents, with discretionary additional days agreed due to Covid-19 impacts. Standard policies
exist for maternity, adoption and shared parental leave. Our maternity pay policy covers up to 20
weeks at full pay.
Staff recruitment policy: sets out expectations of managers at recruitment stage, including
training in unconscious bias; provides clear polices support the induction and probation process.
Since 2017, 211 academic and research staff have joined, with 98.5% passing their probationary
period.
Staff wellbeing: a new staff health and wellbeing network has been established to promote health
and wellbeing issues, using institution-wide expertise; a staff wellbeing hub of resources has also
been developed. Employee Assistance Provider and Occupational Health offer 24-hour support
and face-to-face counselling. Sickness absence levels are relatively low (5.0 days compared to 5.5
days all institutions, 2019/20 UCEA data).

Career Development
Kingston’s Domains Framework provides the criteria and standards to support career
development, increase performance and reward achievement. It recognises the diversity and
interconnectivity of career activities and roles undertaken by academic staff. The framework
comprises 5 ‘domains’:


                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   1.   Learning & Teaching
   2.   Research
   3.   Business & International Partnerships (Knowledge transfer)
   4.   Professional Practice, Impact and Public Engagement (Knowledge Exchange)
   5.   Leadership & Management

Each has clearly articulated standards, expectations and quality thresholds for every career stage.
The framework is underpinned by a comprehensive programme of training and support (online and
in person) and supports career personalisation by encouraging a ‘mixed economy’ of skills. It also
assists workforce planning to allow agility and responsiveness to business needs.

The framework was deployed to identify ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR) as
determined by Kingston’s REF 2021 Code of Practice. Staff with evidence of a minimum 30%
research domain are identified as having SRR. A research domain below this threshold is intended
to support career development and may also recognise research as part of a larger programme of
enterprise or leadership activity.

Research Leadership and Management

Research, Business and Innovation (RBI) services ensure effective governance, support and
training for all aspects of research institution-wide. The core teams are: Research, including the
Graduate Research School; Research Systems, Governance & Funding; Impact; Business
Engagement; and Apprenticeships. Research leadership and management in academic units is
provided by Faculty Associate Deans for Research, Business & Innovation, School Directors of
Research and Directors of Postgraduate Research.

Support, Training and Development

In November 2020 we once again received the EU HR Excellence in Research Award following
submission of our 4-year Review and Action Plan for implementing the Vitae Concordat for the
Career Development of Researchers, subsequently becoming formal signatories to the
Concordat. The Action Plan commits us to developing research training provision at all levels,
including for example an open contract policy for researchers; and responds to feedback from the
Career Researcher Online Survey and the Principal Investigator & Research Leaders Survey (both
2019), which highlighted the need for more robust appraisal procedures (contract researchers) and
further training on grant finance management and project management (PIs). In 2019-20 a
Research Leadership Academy known as RISE was piloted from Health, Social Care and
Education, which will further inform future institution-wide leadership development. We jointly lead
the South London NIHR ARC Capacity Development theme.

RBI central teams work in two distinct hubs to offer support: Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences;
STEM & Healthcare. Key functions are: research development (including training and support for
grant applications); business development & apprenticeships; research operations (including post-
award support); impact (including impact training and planning, evidence, evaluation and
reporting). There is a dedicated REF Manager and IP Manager. Library Learning Services (LLS)
manage Open Access funding and the research repository, with oversight of related compliance
and training.
Training is delivered through a structured programme aligned to the Domains framework, with
additional investment in impact training and leadership development (2018) and Strategic Priorities
funding utilised to enhance training in policy impact and engagement through specialist provider
workshops (2019/20); and through biannual staff training weeks known as the Festival of
Research. The 2020 Festival focussed specifically on the developmental needs of ECRs and PGR
students, and BAME and gender issues in research careers. From 2019 we have held twice-termly
School Directors of Research (SDR) Forums to exchange best practice in research development
and management. Annual stakeholder workshops for PIs and consultancy/contract researchers
respectively gather input to improve institutional support.


                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

In 2020 we invested in a 3-year subscription to a suite of Epigeum online research training courses
(Professional Skills for Research Leaders; Research Integrity; The Research Skills Toolkit), both in
response to the challenges of delivering training during Covid-19 and to develop a long-term
blended approach. Mandatory research ethics training is supported by Epigeum online
programmes and annual workshops led by the UK Research Integrity Office. In 2018 we
introduced an online platform (from infonetica) for the submission and review of research ethics
proposals to ensure consistency of approach with effective University-level governance
(KUREOS).

From 2018, our ECR training programme has delivered 60 training and briefing events to over 800
attendees. We have a competitive internal First Grant Scheme which provides seed funding and
supports grant writing skills; between 2015-2020 31/80 applications were funded (Value £219k).

REF 2021 and its Code of Practice has also been used to build research community and
strengthen peer review and mentoring. In 2019 a process for self-assessment of outputs was
introduced and used as the basis for training staff in REF standards and protocols. The Research
Leadership Academy (RISE) will further inform future institution-wide leadership development.


Graduate Research School

The Graduate Research School delivers PGR research training aligned with the VITAE
Researcher Development Framework; the programme is responsive to feedback from the
Postgraduates Researcher Experience Survey. It equips PGRs and ECRs with essential skills to
develop as researchers and build research careers. A blended approach incorporates online
training from the Epigeum suite of research training courses alongside in-person workshops.
Unconscious bias training has been introduced for PGRs specifically. In 2019 we introduced a
bespoke mentoring scheme for BAME postgraduate researchers. PGRs participate in developing
the programme for the Festival of Research, ensuring that student-led events are foregrounded.
Over the next 4 years we will focus on expanding PGR careers training. PGR supervisory training
is mandatory for new supervisors; refresher training is mandatory every 5 years (minimum) for
established supervisors, running on a triannual basis. Supervisor training now includes mental
health awareness training in the context of PGR supervision; we run additional workshops annually
for supervisors to exchange experiences specifically on navigating problems that can arise with the
student-supervisor relationship. Faculties undergo formal periodic Internal Review of Postgraduate
Research Degree Student Experience; they are required to deliver an action plan in response to
the review findings.


Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

The University’s approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) is fundamental to our
research culture, supporting our mission to foster knowledge through positive engagement and
partnership and informing the goal of societal impact of our research. Our sector-leading work
includes the Inclusive Curriculum Framework, addressing the BAME degree awarding gap; and
we have achieved Race Equality Charter and Athena Swan recognition at institutional level.
Athena Swan Bronze awards are also held in Engineering, Life Sciences, Pharmacy and
Chemistry, Computing and Mathematics; Health and Social Care and Social Sciences have made
a Bronze application and await the outcome in Spring 2021; the Business School and School of Art
are preparing Bronze applications for May 2021 submission. We have agreed ambitious access
and participation targets with the OfS, and our Network of Equality Champions deliver projects to
help shape an inclusive learning and research environment. EDI strategy is driven by our equality
objectives and includes a coordinated series of actions to: enhance staff and student achievement
and progression; ensure good governance and accountability; promote representation,
engagement and inclusion; and deliver resources, training and development. Members of the
Senior leadership team sponsor different strands of equalities work.

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

In 2020 new staff networks were created for Black, Asian and Ethnic Minority staff and LGBTQ+
staff respectively. The University recently joined the Stonewall Diversity Champion network to
access best practice resources to support staff. Our work on improving gender equality has helped
us to reduce the median gender pay gap to 8.7% as at 31.3.20 which compares favourably to the
HE sector pay gap of 15.5% in 2018/19. 11% (8 of 70) of substantive professors are BAME,
compared to a benchmark of 10% in the Advance HE 2019 Statistical Report. 17% (28 of 165) of
Associate Professors are BAME, compared to a benchmark of 10% for 'non professors' in the
Advance HE 2019 Statistical Report. 23% of our academic staff are from Black, Asian or Ethnic
Minority background.

As a precursor to our REF 2021 Code of Practice, a Code of Conduct was drawn up in 2018 to
ensure fair and consistent practices in the use of Mock REF data. Thereafter, internal Unit-level
selection panel members were required to undertake REF-specific training in unconscious bias
(co-delivered with Advance HE). Selection of panel members was reviewed by REF Steering
Group in respect of diversity and inclusivity.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income and Investment

During the cycle, the University has realized a total of £22,945,857 mainstream research income,
an average of £3.28m per annum, showing a slight degree of improvement compared to the
previous cycle which had an average of £2.72m per annum (£13,617,966). This was also
supported by £2.52M academic, administration and central services research income, a category
not returned in the prior cycle, of which 92% related to AHRC doctoral training block grants
(LDOC/TECHNE). Despite this improvement, however, the growth in our research output and in
SRR has not yet been matched by corresponding growth in mainstream funded research.
Measures are therefore in place for the next cycle to increase the number of staff engaged in
bidding, the degree of collaboration and the scale of bids, including:
    • Formalising expectations about research bidding performance through our Domains
        Framework
    • Developing research leadership, and increasing PI and Co-I capability, given the growth of
        staff numbers submitted to REF 2021
    • Distributing QR more effectively to support and incentivise research performance of
        research centres and in areas of emerging research.

During the current REF cycle, the University has invested in research and impact development
through a series of targeted initiatives:
    • Research Transformation and Research Development Funds, established in 2015, to
       support new and developing research respectively. £1.M invested over a three-year period
       to support individual, collaborative and project-based research
    • First Grants Scheme designed to build capacity in the generation of research income from
       an early career stage onward, £219K awarded in this cycle
    • Impact Uplift Fund to strengthen and support the production of evidence for impact
    • Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker, providing training and support for staff in the gathering of
       impact evidence
    • Strategic Priorities Funding used to extend policy impacts and deliver training to support
       policy engagement
    • Santander Universities Funding targeted at international research visits to initiate or
       strengthen research collaborations
       Over £340K from the Global Challenges Research Fund invested in developing projects
       and collaborations to support sustainable development, economies and societies, human
       rights and social justice, notably in South East Asia, in areas of health, computing,
       engineering, architecture, social sciences, business and the arts.


                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Physical and Digital Infrastructure

Considerable investment into the campus (notably from 2018-21) includes teaching and learning
spaces, libraries and archives, laboratories and technical facilities and public engagement space
for exhibitions, performances and events. The Stanley Picker Gallery and Dorich House Museum
are centrally funded with £315K p.a. (operations and staffing), supplemented by £80K p.a. Arts
Council National Portfolio Funding and £40K p.a. from the Stanley Picker Trust to fund
Fellowships.

Capital investment in the University’s estate, facilities and digital infrastructure has benefited
research over the period. £50M was invested in the flagship Town House, designed by RIBA 2020
Gold Medal winners Grafton Architects. The building houses the main library with high quality
climate and humidity-controlled facilities for archives and special collections; and teaching,
performance and social spaces. It is designed to be fully publicly accessible and to enhance our
public and community engagement, providing a public platform for research-led events.

A further £33.4M has been invested in arts and humanities facilities at Knights Park Campus: the
Mill Street building, designed by Stirling Prize-winning Haworth Tompkins (opened 2019) has new
and enhanced workshops, post-production and animation suites, digital media labs and editing
suites, a photography suite and specialist 3D workshops. Since 2014, £500,000 of new equipment
has been added to the audio-visual loans store to facilitate free-of-charge borrowing of specialist
equipment for arts practitioners and researchers. Prior to the refurbishment, a new hackspace for
creative coding and programming and a new Letterpress and Bookarts workshop were created in
2016 (£160K investment).

Building on improvements to STEM research facilities made in the previous REF cycle,
laboratories and test facilities have benefited from upgrading and the addition of new specialist
facilities. The University invested £0.52M in 2018/19 to replace the previous High Performance
Computing facility, a further £50K in 2017/19 to build a 24 graphics processing unit farm along with
the Centre for Augmented and Virtual Reality Environments (CAVE) (£53K; 2017). The Academic
Centre for Cybersecurity Education and Culture, specialising in providing intelligence for live
threats and strategies to combat cybercrime, received £900K of investment in 2018-21. New build
allowed the development of dedicated laboratory space and extensive facilities (300 m2) for life
sciences including cell culture, genome sequencing, proteomic and biochemistry (2013/14; ca
£2M). A state-of-the-art drone testing facility was created at our Roehampton Vale campus in 2017
(£70K), and the test facilities are also being upgraded to support research in rocket propulsion.
Total Investment of £141,500 in our Psychology laboratories in the period includes a new
Behavioural Science lab (upgraded 2019) with eye-tracking and emotion analysis software, and the
establishment of an electroencephalogram lab. During the first lockdown (March 2020) our
Business School invested in access to an online Bloomberg Terminal.

Further investment is underway for the next cycle. An incubation facility is currently under
construction at our Seething Wells campus. Opening in late 2022, this will provide flexible
workspace to support both student working and research projects. An investment of £1.29M will
improve labs and workspaces for the School of Computer Science and Maths, supporting research
and PGR. The University is currently exploring options for consolidating all Engineering activity on
one campus in a new facility. This will be the next major construction project for the University, at
the forefront of which is a new approach to collaborative multi-disciplinary learning and research.

The University uses combined research capital and internal funds to support a combination of
infrastructure projects benefiting research across the whole institution and local infrastructure
supporting Units. An institutional example is investment in an online research ethics system
(Kingston University Research Ethics Online System, KUREOS) allowing us to standardise and
streamline governance, digitise storage and provide better support to ensuring quality of
experience for participants; investment in EPIGEUM online training programmes for researchers;
and research infrastructure to support research reproducibility and open research, for which we
have also provided additional funding for gold open access routes. Improvements have been made

                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
to our Data and Research Repositories, for example by acquiring the REF 2021 Plug-In to improve
the search and selection of research outputs for Units. We have further enhanced the Research
Repository to incorporate portfolios of evidence in support of the Domains Framework. Local
examples of other research capital investment include updating the Psychology Observation
Laboratory, extending the GPU farm, storage facilities for a materials archive for research in design
and sustainability, Electrocardiogram ‘ambient condition’ testing equipment and a new flow
cytometer.




                                                                                             Page 9
