Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Derby

 1. Institutional context and mission

 The University of Derby (UoD) is the only Higher Education Institution (HEI) in Derbyshire. Over
 three campuses in Derby, Chesterfield and Buxton, there are 24,854 students and 3,478 staff. Our
 annual turnover is over £194M, with income predominantly derived from tuition fees. Buxton and
 Leek College is also part of the University. Twenty-one percent of our full-time undergraduates
 are from the lowest HE participation neighbourhoods and BAME students make up 20.8% of
 undergraduates. Delivery is through a college structure led by PVC Deans (Colleges of: Arts,
 Humanities and Education (AHE), Business, Law and Social Science (BLSS), Health and Social
 Care (H&SC), Life and Natural Sciences (LNS) and Engineering and Technology (E&T), supported
 by UDOL, UoD’s online provision).

 UoD is a champion of social mobility, our Vice-Chancellor, Chairs the Derby City Opportunity Area
 Board and we rank second in the country for Fair Access (HEPI). In 2020, we were awarded
 University of the Year (UK Social Mobility Awards) and NEON HEI of the Year. As an anchor
 institution we have worked to deliver a powerful regional university agenda that addresses the
 needs of its students and regional stakeholders with curriculum developments such as our FdSc
 Nursing Associate and the first UK Police Constable Degree Apprenticeship. We have a long-
 standing reputation for teaching excellence: TEF Gold; Top 10 for Postgraduate Student
 Experience (2020) and above sector average for the proportion of staff with AdvanceHE
 Fellowship.

 UoD has significantly changed since 2014, moving from a focus on learning and teaching to one
 with a broader academic and civic mission. In 2018 UoD launched its 2018-2030 Strategic
 Framework identifying itself as an ‘applied University’ predicated on delivering excellence and
 opportunities for our students, staff and region. The Framework acknowledged that UoD needed
 to build more focused and integrated applied research strengths across its disciplinary base. This
 increased focus and support for research is evidenced in our REF2021 submission (Table 1).

 Our applied research strengths in our 10 UoAs play a key role in impacting on the vibrancy and
 regeneration of the region. Derby City Council’s Economic Growth Strategy 2018-22 prioritises a
 ‘University Quarter’ as part of a vibrant, learning city. Derbyshire is geographically, economically
 and socially diverse and is part of the D2N2 LEP area. Collaboration is key to our strategic
 approach with active engagement with a range of stakeholder groups. We provide specialist
 support and expertise to key employment sectors e.g. transport equipment manufacturing; health
 and social care; education; supply chain and logistics. Our UoAs provide focused direction into
 new areas of expertise as we move into our next research development phase (Section 2).

 UoD has co-invested its own resources to deliver an ambitious programme of business support
 (Section 4). Our funded local growth programmes have enabled us to introduce SMEs to
 collaborative research and innovation, enabling them to build their capacity, in support of the
 Industrial Strategy target to increase business R&D spend.

 The synergistic nature of our regional needs, student body, curriculum and research can be seen
 in the development and rebalancing of our research, teaching and enterprise activities from
 RAE2008 to REF2021.

 2. Institutional research and impact strategy

 2.1 Research strategy
 Following REF2014, UoD implemented an ambitious Research Strategy 2014-2020. The aims of
 this Strategy and their indicators of success are briefly summarised below (Table 1).




                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Table 1: Summary of UoD Research Strategy 2014-2020 and success indicators.

  Research Strategy          Indicators of success
  2014-2020
  a) Achieve an improved     Significant increases in volume of all REF2021 metrics, supported by
  REF submission             a dedicated research and knowledge exchange office and enhanced
                             research governance processes.
  b) Increase research       A 38% increase in research students (394 in 2020 compared to
  student numbers            285 in 2014) and a 40% increase in completions (126 compared to
                             64 in REF2014) when both calculated over a five-year period.
  c) Support more staff to   An increase of 147% in the number of FTEs submitted to REF2021
  engage with research       (264.2) compared to REF2014 (106.8).
  d) Increase research       An average increase of 347% annual income in REF2021
  income                     compared to REF2014 when both calculated over a five-year period.
                             Total research income reported to REF2014: £1.87M vs REF2021:
                             £11.73M.

 Realising these aims was predicated on significantly improving the research environment. The
 Strategy was supported by a £1.8M average annual research investment, which funded
 appointments to research leadership roles in Colleges and a central research and knowledge
 exchange unit (URKEO) to lead on enhanced research governance. Substantial investment was
 made in the establishment of new professor led research institutes and centres, across our
 disciplinary areas. The 2014-2020 Strategy built upon REF2014 and had at its foundation not only
 the ambition to create distinctive research but that the benefits of the investments would extend
 beyond academia to our impact beneficiaries, a key principle of the University’s Strategic
 Framework. The strategic investment cycles have resulted in improved performance aligned with
 the 2014-2020 Strategy.

 URKEO was established to support the implementation of our Research Strategy. Led by the
 Provost (Innovation and Research), it has 19 staff, including academics and professional service
 staff. URKEO has been key to our cultural transformation by embedding a vibrant and dynamic
 research and knowledge exchange culture through its lead on governance, researcher
 development, impact, grant capture and delivery, funding compliance and postgraduate student
 support. URKEO’s key achievements include:

     •   Strengthening research governance structures. Operating through a ‘hub and spoke’
         model with the University Research Committee (URC) and the College Research
         Committees (CRC). URC’s wider remit includes: a) governance; b) monitoring,
         engagement with and enhancement of student experience, including PRES; c) strategy
         development; d) researcher development (Section 3); e) assuring doctoral provision; f)
         leverage and monitoring of research income and preparations for KEF; g) the
         management of research constituencies (University Professorial Council, UPC); h) sub-
         committees, which include: i) University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) which is
         aligned to the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the San Francisco
         Declaration on Research Assessment (metrics); ii) REF Steering Committee, key to the
         delivery of our Research Strategy.
     •   Supporting successful research funding and knowledge exchange. Performance
         across both research and knowledge exchange has increased significantly (Table 1).
         Knowledge exchange activity has increased HE-BCI year-on-year.
     •   Strengthening intellectual property (IP) and commercialisation opportunities. An IP
         Policy was introduced in 2018 which has enabled the formation of our first community
         interest company (CIC), S.H.E.D, an accessible pop-up art space, facilitating creative
         public dialogue.
 Our Open Research Environment is demonstrated by our adoption of ‘Green’ Open Access as
 the default option, implementation of green and gold access policies and funding to support APCs.
 We ensure compliance with funder policies on Open Access and Open Data with our Research

                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Data Management Policy, which allies with and supports the Concordat on Open Research
 Data principles. There is a realistic timeframe (up to 2023) for phased implementation of the Policy
 allowing for investment in resource/ infrastructure.

 2.1.1 Strategic performance
 UoD has achieved all the objectives of the 2014-2020 Research Strategy (Table 1), the overall
 aim of which was to achieve an improved REF score across all subjects and to further embed
 research within the University. Table 2 illustrates significant increases across all REF metrics.
 Through targeted investment, including the establishment of URKEO, we have been able to create
 and develop areas of research expertise. There has been a significant uplift in research
 appointments across career levels: professors, associate professors and ECRs, supporting all 3
 REF metrics. Our professorial numbers have grown from 11 in 2014, to an establishment of 64
 professors and 34 associate professors. Mirroring this growth in expertise and aligning doctoral
 opportunities with our research strengths, PGR student numbers and completions have
 significantly increased. We have taken a holistic, inclusive view of transforming our research
 culture, benefitting from alignment with the University’s Strategic Framework. Enhanced
 governance processes, infrastructure support and development opportunities have been led
 centrally and embedded in our Colleges and UoA structures.

 Table 2: Summary of REF progress 2014-2020
                       Units of      Staff FTEs             Volume of         Impact Case
                       Assessment                           outputs           Studies
  REF2014 Submission        10             106              408               21
  REF2021 Submission        10             264.21           661               27

 2.2 Impact strategy
 UoD’s Strategic Framework 2018-30 is predicated on its strategic vision of ‘Being a Force for
 Positive Impact’ and ‘Opening Doors for Everyone’. At the heart of our Strategy is to positively
 impact local communities and people within our region and beyond, through publicly and
 community engaged research, innovation and knowledge exchange. Our Strategic Framework
 resonates with the REF impact agenda and our strategic research ambition.

 In 2014, URKEO appointed an Impact Officer to work across UoD to make impact planning,
 capture and training available to all, as well as monitoring Institutional impact KPIs. Strategic
 investments resulted in some Colleges making impact focussed appointments too, which has
 shown the benefits of such roles and which the Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities 2020-
 2026 will build upon to further develop a hub and spoke model for impact. The URKEO Impact
 Officer is a member of NCCPE and their PEP Insights research group; we aim to sign the NCCPE
 Watermark in 2022. Our engagement is underpinned by the Civic University Agreement. HEB-CI
 data (2018-2019) evidences that our researchers have delivered free public lectures to 16,816
 people, free exhibitions to 13,621 visitors and free performances to 2,712 viewers.

 URKEO have been working with the Colleges to support 27 REF2021 Impact Case Studies, many
 of which evidence best practice in research informed public engagement benefitting Derbyshire
 and beyond. Influenced by working with Chesterfield Royal Hospital, H&SC has created national
 online capacity building networks for clinical nurse educators (CNEnet), and with LNS through its
 Nature Connectedness research has shaped the public engagement strategy of The Wildlife Trust
 and the National Trust. Collaborating with Derby Theatre, BLSS has worked on arts projects (Plus
 One, #ThisisDerbyProject) that engage young people in care and/or in social mobility cold spots,
 building essential skills/cultural confidence (The Guardian 2020 award for social and community
 impact). SET’s Audio-Engineering expertise has engaged the public at world leading music events
 (Glastonbury Festival) and has influenced World Health Organisation public regulatory
 frameworks for safe listening. AHE has supported the civic agenda regionally from co-curating the
 international biennial FORMAT photography festival (delivered in Derby with QUAD) to public
 engagement with history in the Being Human Festivals 2019 and 2020.

                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.3 Future Research and Impact Strategic Goals
 UoD now wants to ensure there is continuity and growth through a balance of strategic investment
 and “business as usual” as it builds upon the significant improvements evidenced in our REF2021
 submission. The Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities (2020-2026) set the direction of
 travel as we consolidate our academic areas, focusing on research strengths and the UK R&D
 roadmap priorities to ensure a sustained and vibrant research culture.

 Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities 2020-2026
    1. Investing in Talent: Expanding our capability to create knowledge and deliver innovation.
    2. Growing Innovation: Advancing our knowledge, through our public, private and third sector
       partners, to enable innovation and create impact.
    3. Regional Impact: Working with local partners and stakeholders to tackle social,
       environmental and economic challenges.
    4. Empowering Graduates: Enabling our students to engage in impact driven research and
       knowledge exchange.
    5. Stimulating Business: Creating an ecosystem for the University and its partners to
       commercialise ideas.
    6. Delivering Assurance: Improve performance, efficiency and effectiveness of processes
       and management of risk.

 Our REF2021 submission has identified interdisciplinary areas of current impact strength and
 potential future growth e.g., nature and wellbeing and social policy and arts. Whilst research will
 continue to support the curriculum, divestment from non-priority areas will support an efficient and
 effective portfolio, driving forward the sectors of the future: Data Science; Clean Growth and
 Innovation; Bio-sciences; Creative Industries; Public Sector and Health and Wellbeing.

 ‘Opening Doors’ applies not only to our student population but also our business community. We
 work actively with D2N2 on the Local Industrial Strategy, engage with the Midlands Engine
 partnership predominantly through the Midlands Enterprise Universities group, and are a member
 of the Derbyshire Economic Partnership which brings together economic development agencies
 and other organisations to strengthen the economy and tackle deprivation.

 3. People

 3.1 The University context
 The University’s Strategic Framework is a significant cultural change piece which embeds EDI
 considerations in all aspects of our work and informed our 2019 People Strategy, with its’ themes
 of Talent and Success, Leadership and Management, Equality, Diversity, Inclusion & Wellbeing
 and Collaboration. We have committed to developing a high performing and inclusive culture
 aligned with Athena Swan principles. Our Gender Equality Network is dedicated to raising
 awareness of gender equality. Since REF2014 there has been a significant increase (11%) in the
 number of women submitted to REF2021 (Figure 1), which demonstrates the effectiveness of our
 commitment.




                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 Figure 1: REF2021 Eligible and Submitted BAME and White Researchers (%) (Left) and
 Female and Male Researchers (%) (Right) (Staff HESA Return, 2019/20)

 Our Gender pay gap is one of the lowest in the sector, with a gap of 10.5% (Mean) and 9.2%
 (Median). We also report our ethnicity pay-gap, recognising intersectional barriers in achieving our
 goals. Our leaders visibly exemplify inclusion and promote gender equality; in 2019 the VC was
 awarded Stonewall’s Regional Leader. In 2020 our position in the Stonewall Equality Index is
 226/500+. We aim to sign the Race Equality Charter in 2022. It is encouraging that our BAME
 return at 25% is higher than the 18% eligible BAME in the Category A population, and our
 REF2014 submission (Figure 1). Three percent have a declared disability compared to 6% of the
 eligible Category A population. The percentage of eligible researchers on a fixed-term contract
 (6%) is similar to the percentage of fixed term researchers submitted to the REF (7%). Table 3
 illustrates the protected characteristics data of senior staff, and Table 4 our recruitment of
 Category A staff by age profile.


  Table 3: Professors and Senior Staff by Protected                  Table 4: Recruitment
  Characteristic (%)                                                 by Age Group (%)
  Ethnicity Group              Sexual                                Age Group
                               Orientation
  Asian                5.3     Gay Man             <1.0              <25             1.4
  Black                4.0     Gay                 <1.0              26-35           21.3
                               Woman/Lesbian
  Chinese              4.6     Heterosexual        78.2              36-45           31.1
  White                84.1    Prefer not to Say 20.5                46-55           31.1
  Not Known/Refused 2.0        Religion                              56-65           14.1
  Gender                           Buddhist             2.0          >65             1.0
  Female                 37.7      Christian            40.4
  Male                   62.3      Hindu                2.7
  Disability Group                 Refused              17.9
  Disabled               2.7       Muslim               2.0
  Not Disabled           97.3      Sikh                 <1.0
                                   No Religion          34.4


                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.2 Building a research engaged community
 Achieving our strategic ambitions has required a significant transformation of our current and
 future staff base towards research and knowledge exchange. We are committed to nurturing and
 encouraging research excellence across all our disciplines and career stages, recognising the
 strong link between excellent research and an excellent student experience. Harnessing and
 aligning our staff and students’ energies, creativity and talent is the foundation of our thriving
 research environment and significant investment has been made into research support (URKEO),
 actively seeking to encourage and support those at differing stages of their research journey (e.g.
 ECR Forum). Our approach to engendering a research culture has been through a mix of new
 appointments, particularly at professorial level and the development of our existing staff. Annually
 6 staff on average have been awarded doctorates and 59 are currently studying UoD doctoral
 qualifications. To supervise doctorates staff must undertake our supervisory training course. Our
 People Strategy has led to a new appraisal scheme and a digitised HR system. In addition to the
 EDI Committee, there are six staff networks: Disability Coordinators’ Group; Race Equality Group;
 LGBT+ALLIES Group; Aurora Leadership and the Academic Equality and Inclusivity Group, which
 have made significant contributions to our policies on recruitment procedures, carer leave and
 flexible working and staff wellbeing.

 The development of a researcher career family as a career pathway in 2015, has been further
 enhanced by an internal professorial conferment opportunity. Reward and recognition through the
 workload planning process of those engaged in ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR) is a
 key enabler in enhancing both our research capability as well as the retention of key research
 staff. Individual Research Plans (IRPs) have been piloted during this REF period to give a
 framework for assuring research time is effective, supported and delivers the expected outcomes.
 An objective of the Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities is to adopt IRPs for all Category
 A staff.

 Values of inclusivity can be evidenced throughout this REF cycle. In the Mock REF exercises
 (2018 and 2019), colleagues were encouraged to self-assess their outputs. A REF2021
 communications plan has included multiple formats for enabling staff to remain informed
 throughout our preparations. Every effort has been made to ensure that absent staff are informed
 of REF policies and processes.

 3.3 Determining SRR
 The transformational journey UoD has been on, means that a 100% Category A staff submission
 was not appropriate. Moving forward, the Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities aim to uplift
 our submission of Category A staff from 30% to 50%, by enabling a greater number of staff to fulfil
 their academic contract with targeted development opportunities.

 The development of our Code of Practice was inclusive and engaged representatives from
 differing career stages, professional services, union colleagues and academic disciplines. The
 PVC Deans, with advice from UoA Leads, have made the final determination of SRR, in
 consultation with individuals. All staff involved in determining SRR have undertaken our
 unconscious bias training. In addition, Advance HE equality and diversity training tailored to the
 REF process was delivered in 2019 and 2020. All eligible staff who have not been deemed to have
 SRR are informed in writing of the decision and the reasons for it and are offered a supportive
 meeting with the relevant PVC Dean or nominee.

 3.4 Researcher development
 3.4.1 Internal conferment
 An annual professorial conferment round began in 2017/18, linked with our ongoing strategic aim
 to increase capability and capacity. This development has supported a number of aspects of the
 Strategic Framework, namely ‘positive impact’, ‘opening doors’, ‘future-focussed’ and ‘valuing
 people.’ Workshops delivered by the University Professorial Council (UPC) and HR support
 prospective applicants. An Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) is undertaken for each round. To


                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 mitigate disparities in career progression, the applicant workshops present an opportunity to role
 model supported by a 1:1 mentoring scheme for both potential and successful applicants.

 3.4.2 Mentoring
 Our mentoring scheme provides a means of supporting the research objectives of staff, developing
 their own and UoD’s research capacity. The Scheme enables researchers to drive their own
 research development, under the guidance of UPC mentors. A 6-month ECR pilot mentoring
 scheme garnered overwhelmingly positive feedback and balanced representation from across the
 colleges. It is now a key strand of our researcher development. Associate professor mentoring
 was launched in 2019 and we have 29 active mentees in all schemes split across 25 different
 mentors.

 3.4.3 Stakeholder groups
 UPC provides strategic support for the implementation of policy and practice to enhance the
 research environment. Each College nominates members. An inaugural professorial lecture series
 and annual social event has been established, which invites all conferred professors
 (establishment, emeritus and visiting) and showcases recent successes and presentations from
 our ECRs and PGRs. Visiting professors/fellows positions have grown to over 100. ECRs from
 each College are UPC members. UPC also leads on our response to UN Global Challenges. In
 2019, Health and Wellbeing, Smart Cities and Communities and Social and Education Policy
 weeks were held drawing on our research expertise.

 The ECR Forum crosses College and disciplinary boundaries, acting as a catalyst for shared
 learning and stimulating collaboration. The effectiveness of our ECR support is evidenced by 18%
 of our REF2021 submission comprising ECRs. Targeted development training is delivered to the
 Forum, supported by an annual internal ECR competitive support fund of £30k. ECR
 representation on UPC supports career aspirations and ensures UPC decision making is informed
 by ECR interests. The ECR Forum has 92 registered members, who are representative of the
 college, gender and ethnicity breakdown of our academic staff base and who meet formally four
 times per year.


 3.4.4 Researcher Development Programme (RDP)
 URKEO organises an annual Researcher Development Programme (RDP) to raise awareness
 and develop research and knowledge exchange skills, to support career development and
 achievement of the Research Strategy. Our RDP is aligned with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF) and adopts an inclusive approach. Events have targeted
 development priority areas identified by colleagues in Colleges, stakeholder groups and
 professional services e.g. communicating research, identifying and writing bids, writing for
 publication, impact planning. An annual Research and Knowledge Exchange Conference is
 integral to the RDP. Monthly Research Cafes have provided excellent opportunities for staff and
 students to showcase research, develop skills and discuss research issues in a relaxed
 environment. Panopto recordings of sessions are shared on the URKEO intranet page. The
 implementation of our annual RDP has enabled us to make significant inroads in engagement and
 diversity. The RDP will be enhanced by the inclusion of further career development for post-
 doctoral staff.

 3.4.5 Postgraduate research support
 We have invested in studentships, including GTAs and to support the growth in our PGR
 Community we have invested in dedicated URKEO staff, who ensure the RDP is supported by a
 PGR Calendar of Events. This includes a student co-produced PGR Conference and 3MT
 participation. In addition to MPhil/PhD students, we have professional doctorates in Education,
 Health & Social Care and Business Administration. These reflect our regional stakeholder needs
 and research expertise. As a member of UKGCE and the East Midlands Doctoral Network
 (EMDoc) our training opportunities reflect sector initiatives and include co-produced training
 events with EMDoc partners. We have also partnered with Kings College London and Student
 Minds on an OfS/Research England project resulting in a national, open-access online resource

                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (Wellbeing Thesis). PRES 2020 identified that 82% of our students were satisfied with their
 supervisory support. In comparison to the sector, as evidenced by PRES 2020, our PGR
 population tends to have a higher proportion of part-time students (77%, sector figure 23%), is
 older (>31years, 62%, sector figure 47%) and more female (60%, sector figure 54%),
 representative of the feminisation of the target professions. In terms of ethnicity, UoD is broadly
 similar to the sector (13% BAME, sector figure 15%), with 27.4% of the total PGR awards being
 from BAME students. We are escalating our engagement with industry partner MPhil/PhD,
 including awards co-funded by ERDF and local bio tech SMEs. These are reflective of the
 enhancement of our applied research environment. MPhil/PhD recruitment is the responsibility of
 Colleges, who ensure the applicant is embarking on a viable research programme which relates
 to our existing research expertise. The PGR student journey is governed via CRCs and URC.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1 Income
 UoD’s research income has significantly grown since REF2014, total research income returned is
 £11.73M, a 526% increase from the total research income returned in 2014 (£1.87M). The
 significant growth in HE-BCI is mainly due to increased Innovate UK and Regional Growth
 Funding. KTP income has grown significantly (2015-2020), and we have the highest KTP income
 of all the KEF Cluster J institutions. We are actively involved in 135 long-term knowledge
 exchange collaborations, including KTPs and we have awarded £26.5M of capital investment to
 East Midlands businesses through our Invest to Grow Programme. Contract research with
 business is a strength and an indicator of our healthy KTP activity.
 Capital investment in local growth projects has been focused on increasing research and
 innovation capacity in sectors aligned to our Region. UoD has committed £5.6M of its own
 resources to secure co-investment from regional funding sources. Income from Local Growth
 Funding and European Structural and Investment Funds has led to capital projects critical to long-
 term research development such as St Helena, Rail Research Innovation Centre (RRIC), OMICS
 research facility and the Derby Manufacturing Research Centre (with Nuclear AMRC) and revenue
 projects such as Enabling Innovation, EnScite and De-Carbonise. UoD’s strong public sector
 partnerships (police, health, education) are used to leverage stakeholder engagement in
 innovation and research activities. We have a strong track record for delivering consultancy and
 tendered projects, especially in the public sector. Our collaborative approach to unlocking regional
 development funding has enabled us to deliver a holistic package of local growth projects and
 enabled new collaborations with a range of HE and non-HE partners. GCRF funding has supported
 researchers including PGRs.

 4.2. Infrastructure and Facilities
 ‘Being a Force for Positive Impact’ is driven by our approach to investment in key research areas.
 Our Research Strategy has been supported by ambitious capital investments, with more than
 £200M invested in cutting edge facilities. Significant capital projects since 2014 include: a) One
 Friar Gate Square, a £3M investment to support our social science, legal and public sector
 research; b) a dedicated Bloomberg room (£440k) to support business and enterprise activity; c)
 Aquatic Facility (£250k) to support our coral reef conservation research; d) the new STEM building
 has provided progressive facilities to support our engineering and computer teaching and
 research, including computer labs (£582k) and audio consoles; e) Clinical suites to support our
 allied health researchers; f) Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE), developed
 by a £2M initial investment. IISE provides research, innovation and expertise in advanced
 manufacturing, computational modelling and data science.

 Digitisation of processes has been a key investment priority, to drive efficiency and effectiveness.
 In 2017, the University implemented a postgraduate management system, PhD Manager which
 has been enhanced by the addition of Ethics Monitor. The success of these systems has led to
 the purchase of a research information system, which will identify staff grant activity, profile
 externally staff expertise and act as a repository for outputs, open access compliance, impact
 evidence and engagement. This implementation will mark a step-change in the use of data to drive

                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 our research performance and combined with enhancements to our CRM system, will reduce
 transactional activity, ensuring that URKEO staff continue to be engaged in frontline support for
 academics and business partners. Earlier digitisation investment resulted in the development of
 UDORA (University of Derby Research Archive), our ‘system of record’ for research output
 metadata and impact case study evidence. A dedicated research library team works closely with
 URKEO and now has 24/7 opening, extra study spaces, new databases including Scopus and
 extra journal provision. The research librarians have been key in raising awareness of and
 providing training in copyright and IP, research skills, open access, showcasing outputs, ORCID
 and responsible metrics.

 Our income and infrastructure developments over the REF period reflect the transformation UoD
 has undergone. Research income growth has been enabled by an increasingly research active
 staff base, supported by governance enhancements and URKEO. Targeted investments in
 infrastructure, staff appointments and doctoral studentships have built a strong platform that is
 able to successfully meet regional agendas appropriate to an anchor institution. Our Innovation
 and Strategic Priorities (2020-2026) build upon a REF2021 submission that has provided a
 sustainable and vibrant research environment.




                                                                                            Page 9
