Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Norwich University of the Arts

 Unit of Assessment: 32

 1. Context and mission

 1.1.1   Norwich University of the Arts (NUA) is a specialist art, design and media university with a
         175-year history, gaining University title in December 2012. In 2019/20 the University
         enrolled 2360 Higher Education students studying for undergraduate, postgraduate
         taught and research degrees, with 4% at postgraduate level. This represents an increase
         of 35% in the number of students since 2014. Students were supported by 78 academic
         staff (58.23 FTE) with full-time or fractional contracts, 89 academic staff (36.53 FTE) on
         part-time hourly lecturer contracts and 213 (166.82 FTE) professional services staff,
         including 65 (37.9 FTE) student facing staff (for example, supporting technical workshops,
         study skills, employability, student welfare).

 1.1.2   NUA’s campus comprises eleven buildings in the centre of Norwich, which have all
         undergone substantial refurbishment within the past ten years enhancing the environment
         of the city, including the pedestrianisation of St George Street housing two of our major
         buildings in the city’s cultural quarter. In 2018 NUA won the Times Higher Education
         Leadership and Management Award for Outstanding Estates Strategy and was one of
         three finalists in the ‘Buildings that Inspire’ category in The Guardian University Awards.

 1.1.3   The University has two faculties within which undergraduate and taught postgraduate
         teams are managed (see Table 1). Since 2014, the portfolio of courses has developed,
         including the provision of BSc programmes. BA Fashion Communication and Promotion,
         and BA Visual Effects (VX) were introduced in 2015-16; BA Interior Design in 2016-17;
         BSc courses in Games Development and User Experience (UX) Design in 2017-18. BA
         programmes in Acting, and Fashion Marketing and Business commenced in 2010-21.
         Masters programmes include a mandatory cross-course ‘Research into Practice’ unit of
         study. A Masters programme in Games was added to the portfolio of taught postgraduate
         courses in 2015-16.

 1.1.4   NUA was awarded Gold status under the Teaching Excellence Framework in 2019,
         reflecting the quality of teaching, workshop provision, technical support and facilities
         across the University’s academic profile.




                                                                                                    Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 1.1.5   Table 1 Portfolio of NUA academic courses

                 Faculty of Arts & Media             Faculty of Design & Architecture

              Undergraduate Programmes                Undergraduate Programmes

                  Acting (from 2020/21)                        Architecture

                        Animation                                Fashion

           Film and Moving Image Production           Fashion Communication and
                                                              Promotion

                         Fine Art                   Fashion Marketing and Business
                                                            (from 2020/21)

                 Games Art and Design                            Graphics

               Games Development (BSc)                          Illustration

                      Photography                             Interior Design

                        VFX (BSc)                             Textile Design

                  Masters Programme                        Masters Programme

                         Curation                        Communication Design

                         Fine Art                                Fashion

                         Games                                Textile Design

                Moving Image and Sound

                      Photography


 1.2     University Mission

 1.2.1   NUA’s mission in the period was to inspire creativity and originality, encourage ethical
         thinking and sustainable practice, and develop skills and expertise valued by industry
         today and tomorrow. Our vision: To be the UK’s leading university for creative thinkers,
         makers and designers. To be the industry’s first choice for innovation. To be a leading
         advocate for ethical thinking and sustainable creative practice. To be the UK’s leading
         university for creative thinkers, makers and designers. To be the industry’s first choice for
         innovation. We value: Creativity in all its forms; Our community and everyone’s
         contribution; Honesty and integrity; Diversity, equality and inclusion; Ambition in our staff
         and students; Innovation, challenging established ideas and practices.

 1.2.2   Research and Knowledge Exchange is fundamental to our mission and is embedded
         within the Strategic Plan to be an inclusive community, transforming lives and creating
         sustainable futures.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 2.1    Research Strategy 2015-2020

 2.2    Following the submission to REF 2014 the University undertook a review of its
        research focus, including extensive consultation with staff, to identify themes that
        would reflect and incorporate the range of research activity undertaken and planned
        for the period 2015-2020.

 2.3    The Research Strategy reflects a specialist academic culture that aims to encourage
        and support world-leading, topical research that redefines the boundaries of the
        creative disciplines, supports innovation and entrepreneurialism, and leads to
        demonstrable educational, cultural and economic benefits for society.

 2.4    The objectives of the Research Strategy 2015-2020 were:
        •    To further NUA’s specialist mission by raising the profile of research within and
             beyond the University
        •    To identify entry points into research discourses across and beyond the
             University for colleagues new to this approach to creative practice
        •    To discover new ways to articulate and expose innovations in thought, practice,
             processes and materials fostered in the University's studios, workshops and
             classrooms, and to engage new colleagues by providing various entry points into
             research discourses
        •    To leverage the specialist expertise, resources and networks contained within
             the University with the aim of developing new academic and industry
             partnerships that will enhance its research environment and reputation for
             innovation in the creative disciplines
        •    To support staff and students in their efforts to critically engage with, and
             ultimately take ownership of debates about new forms of research that resonate
             regionally, nationally and internationally

 2.4   The strategy identifies three NUA Research Themes: Created and Contested Territories;
       Human Interfaces; Pattern and Chaos, each with a Research Group that reflects cross-
       course and cross-faculty communities of practice.

 2.5 The University recognises the significance of the relationship between research and
      knowledge exchange in supporting staff career development, in developing sustainable
      external partnerships and in ensuring the currency of teaching and its relevance to
      employability. NUA research generates innovation, knowledge exchange and teaching; it
      is also sustained by these activities.

 2.6   Since 2014 NUA has reinforced the relationship between the research and the business
       and enterprise teams. The Director of Innovation and Engagement is a member of
       Research Committee. The Director of Research or Senior Research Manager and Director
       of Innovation and Engagement analyse the research and knowledge exchange potential of
       all external facing projects and work together to foster productive long-term external
       collaborations. In future, the teams will share staff to support external funding applications,
       partnership/ contract development and project management. This positive relationship has
       resulted in a number of projects that include research, student engagement and
       consultancy activities. Employability support from the Business and Enterprise team is

                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       integrated into all student knowledge exchange projects, overseen by NUA academic staff.
       This model won the Times Higher award for innovation in enterprise education in 2014.

 2.7   The University is a member of GuildHE Research, the research consortium for smaller and
       specialist higher education institutions. This organisation is a collegiate peer-to-peer
       network of 30 comparable institutions that supports its members to embed a positive
       research culture, develop robust research and innovation strategies, and establish
       appropriate infrastructure through which they can drive forward their ambitions. It provides
       researchers of all stages with opportunities to network and collaborate with peers across
       the UK and from a broad range of disciplines, facilitating activities face-to-face and
       virtually, including an annual doctoral summer school, training events, and opportunities to
       forge new projects and communicate their research.

 Details of the delivery of the Research Themes of the NUA Research Strategy 2015-2020 are
 provided in REF5b, section 1.

 3.    People

 3.1   The Human Resources Strategy 2016-2021 seeks to promote excellence in human
       resource management and development by addressing four key aims:

       • Attract and retain academic and professional services staff of the highest calibre

       • Invest in progressive staff development that supports individual professional
         development and strategic priorities

       • Build and support high quality leadership and excellent management in the University

       • Champion Equality and Diversity and Wellbeing

 3.2   The Strategy incorporates the objectives and actions of the University’s Single Equality
       Scheme on the profile of the workforce and the student body. Human Resources supports
       a culture of continuous improvement and ensures that training and development activities
       are linked to the University priorities, including providing support and guidance on career
       and succession planning to assist line managers and staff to have the skills to achieve
       their ambitions and career path.

 3.3   Staff development is managed by a Director of Human Resources and monitored through
       annual staff appraisal and development reviews. All new staff are provided with a timely
       induction to the University with the aim of creating a sense of belonging and, with the
       support of a mentor, are integrated into their role and the NUA community. The delivery of
       the Human Resources Strategy, and progress against the targets and actions are
       monitored by the University Senior Management Team and University Council. The
       Strategy highlights the importance of research development opportunities to build up
       research skills, capacity and competence alongside a sustainable research culture.

 3.4   In 2019 the University introduced three Academic Excellence Pathways for academic staff
       in order to recognise, reward and develop the range of skills and expertise staff contribute
       to the life of the University:


                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

        •   Knowledge Exchange Pathway
        •   Research Pathway
        •   Teaching and Student Engagement Pathway

 3.5. The Pathways were developed with group and individual consultation with all academic
      staff. Feedback was overwhelmingly positive from academic staff at all stages of their
      career and across the range of subject areas. Staff indicated that the Pathways would
      enable their activity in the areas of knowledge exchange and teaching innovation &
      student engagement to be acknowledged and validated by the University, as well as the
      established support and development for research. Key elements of the Pathways project
      were that staff self-designated to a pathway according to criteria for each; that designation
      should reflect the balance of activity for staff on teaching and research contracts; that
      designation should be reviewed at annual staff appraisal and development reviews.

 3.6. The initial stage of the Pathways project was managed by the Academic Pathways
      Steering Group, reporting to Senior Management Team, which reviewed the operation of
      the Pathways in January 2020. Subsequently the strategy and operation of the pathways
      has been undertaken by the Academic Pathways Monitoring Group, chaired by the Pro
      Vice-Chancellor, Academic. The Academic Pathways are an important part of the
      University’s academic staffing strategy, particularly to develop parity for career
      development and support across each of the pathways.

 3.7.   The University recognises that staff who designate to the Teaching and Student
        Engagement or Knowledge Exchange pathways may also aspire to meet the criteria for
        the Research pathway as part of their career development, to plan for Significant
        Responsibility for Research. From 2020/21 these staff can elect to join the University’s
        Emerging Researcher programme at their annual appraisal and development review
        (ADR), which will qualify them for research mentoring support and emerging researcher
        development events. Importantly, all academic staff are expected to attend Research and
        Knowledge Exchange days and are encouraged to join and participate in a NUA Research
        Group. All academic staff can apply for Research Support Funding and for Research
        Sabbatical Leave; these are not solely focused on staff on the Research Pathway.

 3.8.   Since 2014 NUA has established a framework to support staff and reward their career
        achievements in research and teaching innovation and leadership. We have introduced
        criteria and a process for awarding Emerging Researcher and NUA Early Career
        Researcher status and a programme to support these staff. There are criteria and an
        application process for the appointment and awarding of Associate Professor, Professor
        and Emeritus Professor title, overseen by the Professoriate and Honorary Awards
        Committee, chaired by the Vice Chancellor.

 3.9    In 2015 the University introduced three research funding schemes to support individual
        and group research activity, including a research sabbatical leave scheme. Research
        students have access to two dedicated funding schemes to support their research, training
        and professional development.

 3.10 NUA Research is led and coordinated by the research team, including the Director of
      Research, the Research Theme Champions, Research Administrator, Senior Research
      Professor (0.2 fte), Senior Research Manager, Research Fellow.


                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.11 Leadership of Research has been somewhat interrupted [text removed for publication].
      The University appointed a Director of Research with professorial title for the first time in
      November 2014. [text removed for publication]. In interim periods NUA Research was
      directed by the Pro Vice-Chancellor, Academic and continued to be supported by the
      Research Group Champions and an experienced Research Administrator. A Senior
      Research Professor supported the team from January 2018 and a Senior Research
      Manager was introduced from February 2019.

 Details of research staffing support and development are provided in REF5b, section 2.
 4.    Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1.   NUA has a wide range of resources and facilities that support staff and students, and
        which contribute to the cultural and economic life of the city, including the EAST
        GalleryNUA, the Ideas FactoryNUA, an incubation space for digital start-ups, the University
        Collection and Archives, lecture theatres, studios and digital spaces with high-end
        equipment and software. The research office is housed in two rooms on the ground floor
        of Francis House with administrative support for research students, staff research,
        research projects and research events. https://www.nua.ac.uk/university-life/facilities/

 4.2    The University has 12 specialist workshops and studios to support teaching, student
        learning, research and knowledge exchange, including Architecture and Interior Design,
        Printmaking, Fashion, Textiles, User Experience/Interaction Design and Games
        Development, Printing, Scanning & laser cutting, The Sir John Hurt film studio, and The
        Munnings Drawing Studio. These are supported by teams of expert and specialist
        workshop managers and technicians. Technical workshop staff are encouraged to attend
        Research Group meetings and are supported when involved in research projects and
        collaborations with NUA academic researchers (for example, Archer with Dunleavy and
        Hanna).

 4.3    Housed in the Duke Street Building, a remodelled 19th century school building, the Library
        has over 36,000 printed volumes, mainly devoted to arts, architecture, design and media
        subjects. Alongside the collection of books and subscriptions to over 400 journal titles, the
        Library contains a variety of media including:
        o     ebooks (424,000)
        o     exhibition catalogues
        o     graphic design yearbooks
        o     computer application guides
        o     computer games (131)
        o     animated and feature films (2,974)

        A librarian is allocated to support research students. The Library and Learning Support
        team run a programme of inductions and information sessions for students at all levels,
        including research and referencing skills.

 Details of NUA’s research income, infrastructure and facilities are provided in REF5b, section 3.




                                                                                                Page 6
