Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University (ARU)

 1. Context and mission

 Anglia Ruskin University (ARU) traces its origins to the Cambridge School of Art, founded in
 1858. ARU was awarded University status in 1992. One of the largest Universities in the East
 of England, with an annual turnover of £234.1M in 2019-20 and main campuses in Cambridge
 and Chelmsford, we are ranked in the top 350 in the world and 38th in the UK in the THE
 World University Rankings. With a strong civic mission, we work with key public authorities and
 services, business and industry, community and voluntary sector organisations, responding to
 their strategic priorities and needs. We are a diverse university comprising 21,278 UGT, 4,812
 PGT, and 624 PGR students (headcount), from 139 countries, an academic staff complement of
 640 (headcount) from 49 countries, with 286 carrying significant responsibility for research
 including 49 Professors, 26 Readers and 50 Early Career Researchers.

 Against a backdrop of institutional restructuring to address changing HE policy and funding
 drivers in the sector, our strategy following REF2014 has been to invest in areas of research
 excellence and areas demonstrating potential for impactful research and innovation. We
 have positioned ourselves to capitalise upon opportunities for large scale, multidisciplinary
 research, addressing key societal concerns where we have distinctive capacity and
 expertise. During this period, we identified our research priority areas as:

    •   Ageing
    •   Sustainable healthcare
    •   Vision
    •   Medical devices and technology
    •   Built environment and future cities
    •   Sustainability and environment
    •   Crime and policing
    •   Entrepreneurship and applied innovation
    •   Social inclusion and marginalised communities
    •   Creative practice and creative industries
    •   Music therapy

 Research is led by four Faculties:
    • Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS)
    • Business and Law (FBL)
    • Health, Education, Medicine and Social Care (HEMS)
    • Science and Engineering (FSE)

 and six research institutes:
    • Cambridge Institute for Music Therapy Research (CIMTR)
    • Global Sustainability Institute (GSI)
    • Policing Institute for the Eastern Region (PIER)
    • StoryLab
    • Veterans & Families Institute for Military Social Research (VFI)
    • Vision and Eye Research Institute (VERI)

 Researchers are supported by the Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO). The
 PGR community is supported by ARU Doctoral School in strong partnership with the Faculties,
 Professional Services and ARU Students’ Union.




                                                                                          Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 1.1 Balance between research, teaching and enterprise activities

 Our research income, as reported in REF4b, is shown in Table 1. Between 2013/14 and 2016/17
 research income rose from 1.81% to 3.63% of income from fees and education activities; at the
 end of the REF period it remains 155% higher than at the start.


                                 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
   Research income
   (£M)                      2.84    3.09   4.11     6.42     5.03    6.34    4.40
   Fees, education contracts
   and funding body grants
   (£M)                      157     160    166      177      187     194     216
   R and I as percentage of
   fees etc. income          1.81    1.93   2.48     3.63     2.69    3.27    2.03
          Table 1: Comparison of income sources for the period 2013/14 – 2019/20

 Income streams have consistently reflected our diverse activities and strategy to attract funding
 from a wide range of external sources (Figure 1).

                          UK Research council   UK Charity              UK Govt
                          UK industry           EU Govt                 Non EU sources
                          UK/Industry/other


                                                     3%      9%
                                                8%


                                                                   19%



                                         41%
                                                                  15%

                                                             5%


         Figure 1: Exemplar ARU research and innovation income, by type (2019-20)


 1.2 Local economic and demographic context

 We have, throughout the REF cycle, aligned our campus specialities to reflect the economic
 and regeneration priorities of their localities. In Chelmsford we focus upon (i) health,
 performance and wellbeing, (ii) education and (iii) engineering. Our focus on health,
 performance and wellbeing includes our Arise Innovation Centre, Medical Technology Research
 Centre, Health Faculty, Medical School and relationships with local Hospital Trusts, social care
 delivery agencies and emergency services. In (ii) education we have worked with 45 schools in
 Essex through the Royal Opera House Bridge project and through the DfE-funded “Courageous
 Leaders”, the UK’s first leadership programme specifically for LGBTQ+ teachers. Engineering
 (iii) aligns with the significant discipline base in Chelmsford and Essex. In Cambridge, emphasis
 is upon (iv) life sciences, (v) IT and (vi) the creative and digital sectors. We support the growth of
 the life sciences community, and in IT we work with major companies including ARM and
 companies in gaming, creative arts and culture.




                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 1.3 Affiliations and peer groupings

 Since 2014 we have grown active collaboration at leadership level with a wide network of
 regional stakeholders, all of whom provide ARU with insight into the local growth and
 regeneration needs of our region (Figure 2).




    Figure 2: Exemplar collaborative partners of ARU in the Cambridge, Chelmsford and
                                    Peterborough areas


 We are represented on the Success Essex Board, Chelmsford Business Board, Chelmsford
 Technology Ambassadors Network and Harlow Growth Board. We have relationships with
 NHS Trusts, including Mid and South Essex, Cambridge University Hospitals, Portsmouth
 Hospitals, East Suffolk and North Essex, University College London Hospitals and Essex
 Partnership University NHS Trust. We engage with the CBI, including the Eastern Region
 Council, the social value initiative and their “strengthening the regions” programme. We engage
 with the Knowledge Transfer Network and Federation of small businesses and the
 Cambridge and Peterborough Combined Authority. In July 2020 we joined the University
 Alliance group of universities.

 1.4 Institutional research focus, history and development

 As areas of strength in research have grown and developed, we have submitted larger
 submissions to each of RAE1992, RAE1996, RAE2008 and REF2014 and now REF2021. We
 have submitted to all main panels of REF2021 making two submissions to panel A, one to panel
 B, eight to panel C and five to panel D, reflecting ARU’s discipline history, heritage and
 recent priority areas. The number of FTE submitted has grown with each submission. There
 has been investment in Allied Health Professions, Psychology and Sports and Exercise
 Sciences to further develop previous/new REF submissions.


 2. Strategy

 Our focus from 2014 has been on growing the excellence and impact of our research. With the
 launch of our current R&I Strategy (2017) we set about achieving a step-change in our research
 capacity to maximise its impact for the communities we serve. We focussed on investment in
 people and infrastructure, productive relationships with collaborators and stakeholders, culture
 and working environment and on maximising research capacity.

 Over this REF period ARU increased its investment in research and impact infrastructure with
 £82.35M invested in new build including a £45M Science Centre, £17.8M School of Medicine
 and £19.5M in support of our allied health provision. Our Creative Studios continue to provide
 for internationally-acclaimed practice-based research in areas such as children’s book



                                                                                            Page 3
                  Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                   illustration. Our Bloomberg Financial Markets Laboratory allows us to carry out global
                   research in economics, finance and investment.

                   We are the largest provider of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships in the East of England and
                   have established new Arise Business Innovation Centres in Chelmsford and Harlow,
                   supporting companies in the Health, Performance and Wellbeing sector. We identified a
                   “Sector Strategy” in medical technologies, assisted living, smart cities and blue lights and from
                   these grew our research priority areas (Section 1).

         Strategic commercialisation of laboratory space has facilitated knowledge exchange,
         placement and research project opportunities with a growing number of businesses, e.g. the
         Sanger Centre, Cambridge Glycosciences and StopCodon. New computing facilities led to Arm
         Ltd., providing ongoing support for research in artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things,
DEMIC GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
         cybersecurity and big data.

                   Overseen by the university’s committee structure (Figure 3) we review and monitor a range of
SENATEresearch and innovation KPIs, as we continue to grow, develop and improve quality. The DVC
                   (R and I), who chairs the Research and Innovation Committee, provides regular progress reports
                   to the Board of Governors.
                                                     University Senate

                                                               Research &
                           Professorship &
                                                               Innovation
                          Readership Panel
                                                               Committee




             Academic                               Faculty       Research         Research
            Standards &                          Research &        Degrees           Ethics
              Quality                             Innovation      Committee        Committee
            Committee                            Committees




     Academic         Admissions                                  Postgraduate
                                                                                      Faculty
    Regulations         Policy                                  Research Student
                                                                                     Research
   Subcommittee      Subcommittee                                   Progress
                                                                                   Ethics Panels
                                                                 Subcommittee



                     Accreditation
                                                                                      School
                        of Prior
                                                                                     Research
                       Learning
                                                                                   Ethics Panels
                         Panel



                                     Figure 3: Committee structure supporting research governance at ARU

                   2.1 Enabling and actualising impact

                   RIDO develops and supports engagements with key stakeholders to (i) inform local economic
                   and strategic partnerships, (ii) understand their strategic priorities and (iii) ensure ARU is
                   strategically positioned to respond to stakeholder needs ensuring impact from our research.

                   In the REF period, newly developed impact workshops have been supported by RAND
                   Europe and BULLETIN PR, a university-level Research Impact Co-ordinator was appointed
                   and new roles of “Academic Practitioner” were created in all faculties, linking education,
                   research and professional practice.



                                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We are developing “Strategic Compacts”, encompassing the activities of Talent, Skills,
 Innovation and Business Support, with strategically identified partners such as The Welding
 Institute (TWI), multiple Police forces and leadership organisations in the criminal justice system,
 agencies working with military veterans and major NHS Trusts.

 2.2 Open research and regional and national research priorities

 To maximise dissemination of our research findings/data since 2014 we have improved our
 digital infrastructure, implemented a Research Data Management policy, rolled out a new
 Research Information System (RIS) and Figshare for open data sharing. Our institutional
 repository, ARRO, in operation since 2011, is integrated with the RIS. Our Open Access
 Working Group oversees an open access investment fund of £100k per annum.

 2.3 Regional and National Research Priorities

 We have grown our response to regional and national needs and priorities. Regional priorities
 are addressed through our collaborative partners in the East of England (Section 1.3).

 Responding to the Industrial Strategy we address Artificial Intelligence and Data Revolution
 through the development of novel technologies for better medical diagnostics and therapeutics.
 Ageing Society is addressed by research across ARU. Research around clean growth and use
 of resources is driven by our GSI. Research on the Future of Mobility and in logistics is carried
 out by FBL. Resilience and sustainability is led by our School of Engineering and the Built
 Environment and GSI.

 We address the UN Sustainable Development Goals including the areas of sustainable cities
 and communities (GSI, School of Engineering and the Built Environment (EBE), PIER), good
 health and well-being (HEMS, GSI, VFI, VERI, CIMTR, StoryLab), clean water and sanitation
 (EBE), affordable and clean energy (EBE, GSI), reduced inequalities (HEMS, FBL, AHSS) and
 climate action (GSI). Membership of the University Alliance group, coupled with our involvement
 in a new Doctoral Training Alliance around “Sustainable Communities” and the launch of an
 ambitious and holistic ARU Sustainability Strategy (2020 – 26), will further enhance our ability to
 address these goals.

 2.4 Support for interdisciplinary research

 Our research institutes specifically support interdisciplinary research. Our “Sector Strategy”
 and “sandpit” events bring together researchers and external stakeholders and collaborators to
 address specific challenges or goals. Our Vice Chancellor’s studentships scheme (12 per
 annum since September 2018), prioritises cross-faculty working and interdisciplinary projects.

 Interdisciplinary success includes medical engineering where modelling techniques have
 informed orthopaedic surgeons ahead of performing operations at the Hospital for Special
 Surgery in New York. Our biomarker lab has assisted psychologists in identifying molecular
 markers of stress. Our engineers working on resilience have impacted on hydrology and water
 supply in Brazil and health care resilience in Turkey. Our GSI has worked with our Education
 team to develop life-long learning in Education for Sustainability (EfS) and is now changing
 curricula in schools, FE and HE. The History Unit is working with DNA technologists to assist
 children born during the war to black GIs stationed in the UK and UK mothers to find their
 families. Our music therapy dementia and music and brain research links with clinicians and
 academics across the world including USA, Australia, Europe and Asia.

 2.5 Research integrity

 Support for R&I across ARU is guided and enhanced through the adoption of practical
 recommendations associated with the institutional policy to create ‘an inclusive and
 developmentally-focussed R&I environment across ARU’. This includes research integrity.

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Figshare provides for data sharing. Journal clubs and peer review processes for writing and
 bidding activity, providing constructive feedback and challenge are in place. We have robust
 mandatory training around ethics, research integrity, good publication practice, and
 ownership of intellectual property developed, organised and reviewed by the Research
 Integrity Working Group. We are cited in the House of Commons Science and Technology
 Committee Research Integrity Sixth Report of Session 2017–19 as meeting the requirements
 of the committee on research integrity. Our research is in line with The Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity.

 2.6 Development of research collaborations, networks and partnership

 We actively encourage collaboration and networking. Resourcing has become more strategic,
 supporting key developments, growth and attracting external partnerships and funding beyond
 initial investments. Research leaders provide mentorship around promotion, collaboration and
 networking. We enhance professional training and employability for PGR students by including
 networking, collaboration and graduate capitals in their development programme and encourage
 them to present at international conferences.

 2.7 Engagement with the wider community

 ARU contributes to a number of civic agendas including promoting and supporting education,
 being good neighbours, exchanging knowledge, experience and skills, opening up our
 campuses and resources and communicating the impact of our research and education to a
 wider audience.

 The range of activity includes conferences, media engagement, festivals, workshops,
 activities for young people, blogs, podcasts, volunteering, public lectures, policy forums,
 public consultations, exhibitions, advisory services and performances, community
 events, public lectures and articles, the traditional media and digital platforms. In 2018-19
 our widest engagement reach was via The Conversation with 1.9 million reads during the
 academic year. Events engaged 33,000 people and academics spent over 290 days delivering
 these activities.

 In 2020 ARU participated in the Essex2020 celebration of Essex’s contribution to STEAM, and
 will host the prestigious British Science Festival in September 2021. ARU sponsors community
 events and awards including Cambridge Festival of Ideas, Cambridge Science Festival,
 Chelmsford Science Festival, Cambridge Half Marathon, Mill Road Winter Fair, Cambridge
 News Community awards, Cambridge, Chelmsford and Peterborough Fireworks, Essex Cricket
 Club, Pride of Essex Awards and Chelmsford Legal Walk.

 We will further develop Public Engagement activities in support of our research, innovation and
 impact themes and in line with our civic mission.


 3. People

 We hold HR Excellence in Research and Athena Swan Bronze awards, are a Mindful and
 Disability Confident employer with plans in place to become a Leader. We are committed to
 being an Inclusive employer and are signatories of the Time to Change Pledge to support
 mental health in the workplace, we are founding members of the Employers initiative against
 domestic abuse and hold a RoSPA Gold Award. We are members of the Race Equality
 Charter, working towards a bronze award application in late 2021, and we sponsor places on
 Advance HE’s Diversifying Leadership and Aurora leadership programmes. We run our own
 in-house female leadership development programme, “Profile”.

 Of those staff with significant responsibility for research, 86.7% are on permanent contracts. In
 terms of gender balance 49.5% are female, 50.5% are male against 56% and 44% respectively

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 for all eligible staff. The ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability profile is given in Table 2, the
 age profile in Table 3.

                                    BME        Not BME           Refused / unknown
              Staff carrying SRR 13.5%         83%               1.5%
              All eligible staff    16%        81%               3%
                                    LGBTQ+ Straight              Refused / unknown
              Staff carrying SRR 4.5%          76.5%             19%
              All eligible staff    4%         79.5%             16.5%
                                    Disabled Not Disabled Refused / unknown
              Staff carrying SRR 2.5%          91.5%             6%
              All eligible staff    5%         89%               6%
     Table 2: Ethnicity, sexual orientation and disability profile of staff at ARU with SRR
                               compared to all eligible staff at ARU


                                          25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 ≥65
                   Staff carrying SRR 11%        35%   32.5% 18%        3%
                   All eligible staff     9%     30%   34%    24%       3%
      Table 3: Age profile of staff at ARU with SRR compared to all eligible staff at ARU


 We have developed a new academic career framework for implementation in 2020/21 and VC
 Outstanding Staff Awards which recognise excellence including in research and innovation.

 We have redeveloped research staff development programmes. Compulsory areas include
 research ethics, research integrity, intellectual property and research supervisor training. By
 drawing together colleagues from across ARU we exploit their potential to contribute their
 different perspectives and methods to the benefit of larger scale research programmes designed
 to respond to the needs of our partners, policy makers and funders.

 3.1 Study leave

 Personal objectives and institutional ambitions are supported through the university sabbatical
 scheme. Each year 30–35 colleagues are supported for up to 15 weeks, with a budget of
 £10,000 and a mentor. We support half-day and one-day writing retreats, often facilitated by
 the Missenden Centre or Cloud-Chamber, enabling work to be reviewed, or drafts to be
 started or completed. We also support week-long writing retreats where participants can
 attend either as day or residential delegates.

 3.2 Flexible and remote working

 We are fully committed to flexible working through our flexible working policy, underpinned by
 our commitment to the Athena Swan Charter. Flexible, remote and agile working arrangements
 allow us to optimise the use of our resources.

 3.3 Staff recruitment and progression

 In 2014 we introduced a policy that required a Doctorate for academic appointments where
 appropriate. We support those without a Doctorate to pursue one where this provides mutual
 benefit. Career progression is informed by a robust appraisal process and a well-defined
 academic career framework. A rigorous professorial review process has been developed as
 has a new progression route for Research Fellows.




                                                                                                     Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.4 Support for staff with caring responsibilities

 We support colleagues with caring responsibilities through flexible and part-time working and
 maternity, paternity and shared parental leave which involves “Keeping in touch” days
 enabling researchers to maintain contact and currency. To support researchers returning to work
 after a period of family related leave of three months or longer, a fund of up to £4,000 is
 available to accelerate research on their return. We are working with “The Talent Keepers
 Specialists” to design an online hub “the Comeback Community” to support staff returning to
 work after a period of absence.

 3.5 Ill-health or other equality-related circumstances

 We are committed to supporting disabled researchers. We offer a Job Interview Guarantee
 Scheme for disabled applicants. We promote disability awareness in the workplace. We are a
 Disability Confident Employer. Our extensive practices in support of disabled researchers is
 set out in our Disability in the Workplace policy. Our pledge to the Mindful Employer
 Scheme demonstrates our commitment to support people with mental health problems, while
 the Time to Change Scheme aims to change the way we think about mental health. Our
 membership of Inclusive Employers helps us to build upon our inclusive culture.

 3.6 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff

 Part-time and fixed-term staff are offered the same progression opportunities (appraisal and
 academic career framework) as full-time staff, governed by our Fixed-term Employment
 Policy and Procedure, which ensures that fixed-term employees must receive treatment
 comparable with permanent employees.

 3.7 Supporting staff wellbeing

 In support of being a Mindful Employer colleagues are encouraged to engage with activities
 around mental health first aid. We have developed a specific safeguarding policy which
 supports our community, including our researchers who work with children and vulnerable
 adults. We have a Health Surveillance Policy which supports those who work with hazardous
 materials and/or at night. Our extremely safe work environment is evidenced by our RoSPA
 Gold award.

 3.8 Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers

 We have developed a comprehensive researcher development programme, informed by the
 appraisal process, the needs of research groupings, and faculty and institutional research and
 innovation priorities. We achieved HR Excellence in Research status in 2013, and we have
 been successful at every renewal point since.

 3.9 Support and career development of early career researchers and those on fixed-term
 contracts

 We have developed an ARU ECR Charter. Individual research accounts of £2,000 are available
 to spend over a five-year period. ECRs are provided with ring-fenced research time, with 30% of
 their time protected in years 1 or 2 of their career, and a further 30% in one of years 3, 4 or 5.
 ECRs are allocated a research mentor and CPD opportunities are offered. ECRs are
 encouraged to join a university Research Institute and are supported to develop their networks,
 while applications for sabbaticals and studentship funding are prioritised. The ECR voice is
 heard through committee representation.




                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.10 Research students

 Our research students are supported through the recently launched ARU Doctoral School (DS)
 with a focussed mission:

 “Supporting the Doctoral candidates of today to become the researchers, innovators and leaders
 of the future”

 In March 2020 the inaugural Dean of ARU Doctoral School took up post, reframing the support
 for PGR, creating a vibrant, dynamic, inclusive PGR community. The Dean provides leadership
 and planning oversight around PGR, driving policy and practice with approval from the
 University Executive Team, University Senate and Board of Governors. We have introduced
 “Town Hall” events and we hold an annual PGR Research Conference. We will develop a
 focussed recruitment strategy and will reduce inequalities around access to, and attainment
 through, our PGR programmes and in support of our Race Equality Charter submission. We are
 reframing our PGR training programme and developing a new supervisor development
 programme.

 3.11 Equality and diversity

 ARU actively promotes equality, diversity and inclusivity in research activities. All researchers
 undertake mandatory training covering all characteristics given protection by the Equality Act
 2010, including in avoiding unconscious bias.

 We have developed clear policies on equality and diversity, flexible working and maternity
 / paternity / parental leave. All staff participating in recruitment panels are required to
 undertake specific equality and diversity training. We offer training for managers of disabled staff
 and will be launching e-learning for managing and supporting disabled staff. Our staff
 inclusivity networks provide support and guidance to colleagues including a Women’s, LGBT,
 BME, Disabled, and Part time and Flexible working network. The latter was highly commended
 in the Working Families Special Awards in 2017.

 Equality and diversity features strongly our REF preparations. The composition of the Code of
 Practice Working Group was balanced as far as possible in terms of gender, ethnicity and
 career stage. All “designated” colleagues have undertaken dedicated Equality and Diversity
 training. Review of materials in preparation for submission was undertaken by panels balanced
 as far as possible in terms of gender, ethnicity and career stage. Convenors were drawn from
 as wide a pool of staff as possible enabling us to succession plan strategically, and at the
 same time provide staff development opportunities.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Considerable institutional support for the generation of research and innovation income is
 available through RIDO. The Director of RIDO has oversight, working with the Deputy Vice
 Chancellor (Research and Innovation), supported by Assistant Directors (ADs). These include
 an AD Strategic Innovation who oversees large scale projects, and an AD Enterprise
 Partnerships who is responsible for developing research, innovation and knowledge exchange
 programmes through Business Development and Partnership Development Managers.
 Applications for research funding are supported by Research and Innovation Funding
 Managers. Once funding has been won, researchers are supported by a Post Award
 Innovation and Knowledge Exchange Grants Manager and a Post-Award Research Grants
 Manager, managed by a Head of Post Award and Commercialisation.

 4.1 Mechanisms for supporting the reproducibility of research

 Mechanisms are in place to ensure research is high quality and reproducible and the validity,
 viability and reproducibility of research is tested in a number of ways. All funding proposals

                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 are reviewed through a “statement of intent” process prior to development and are subject to
 internal review and scrutiny. Ethics panels review projects and determine the “power” of the
 research and whether or not the proposed data sets can be delivered by the methodologies
 described. Staff and research students are encouraged to publish experimental methods in
 full detail and use reporting checklists. ARU staff have been involved in developing
 international guidelines for the reproducibility of research.

 4.2 Institutional strategies and supporting activities for generating research income
 across research units

 RIDO’s Funding Managers form individual relationships at Faculty level, working with
 colleagues to identify funding sources commensurate with the stage of their careers. Funding
 managers horizon scan and provide writing support, especially for large and interdisciplinary
 research bids. Support is available to attract funders, working with them to support policy
 developments, develop external collaborations to increase success and diversify sources of
 funding. Interdisciplinarity and multidisciplinarity have been supported through our “Sandpits”
 and through the activity of our research institutes.

 4.3 Infrastructure and facilities supporting research and enabling impact

 Our research institutes lead on developing interdisciplinary, inclusive and entrepreneurial
 research. ARU has developed two Arise Innovation Centres, one in Chelmsford and one in
 Harlow. The Centres focus on health, wellbeing and performance, boosting regional economic
 development and enabling SMEs to engage with the university’s knowledge, skills and
 resources. Successes include the development of an inventory control medical dispensing
 machine (with Smart Tools UK Ltd.) and the “FlipPad” (FutureNova Ltd.). The innovation centres
 have brought R and D companies together where this would not otherwise have been possible.
 Vercossa provided FutureNova with crucial advice on their early-stage digital marketing strategy.
 ARU’s strategic relationships with organisations such as TWI, NHS Trusts, and across the
 Oxford-Cambridge ARC and the UK Innovation Corridor will further enhance research,
 innovation and impact generating opportunities.

 4.4 Shared/collaborative use of research infrastructure or major facilities

 We host The Veterans & Families Research Hub, a unique development by ARU enabling UK
 and international users to share in the creation, discovery and understanding of evidence about
 the military veteran family. The Hub contains a synergistic mix of research, discussion and lay-
 friendly outputs and serves as the focal point for evidential understanding and collaboration for a
 broad range of domestic and international users. These include university and other
 researchers, policy makers, statutory and voluntary service providers, the media and the public,
 all with an interest in the military and veteran communities.

 Our University Library is a significant resource. It provides access to over 200 bibliographic
 and full text databases which include Web of Science, Scopus, JSTOR and Embase. We hold
 over 30,000 online journals and over 250,000 books either as print or ebooks. These materials
 are accessed through Ex Libris systems including Primo, and are promoted through Libguides,
 training and Canvas. The Library subscribes to a number of transformative agreements
 including those from Sage and Wiley, and the Director of Student and Library Services is a
 member of the UUK and JISC Content Negotiation Strategy Group.

 4.5 Equality and diversity issues

 Equality and diversity issues are keenly addressed at ARU. Individual needs are identified
 informally throughout the year and formally at appraisal. In order to address issues around
 inclusivity and ethnicity/background, ARU appointed a Race Equality Charter lead in June 2020
 to drive forward positive change, including in research, ahead of a Race Equality Charter award


                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 submission in late 2021. We work with Dr. Jason Arday (University of Durham) informing work
 on diversification in, and decolonisation of, the curriculum and research.

 The research community is very cognisant of religion and belief. To support our global PGR
 community, where possible, events are not scheduled on Holy Days, religious festivals, or at
 times which would inhibit participation. Where this cannot be avoided, second and subsequent
 duplicate events are held.

 Addressing disability, our research environments are DDA compliant. Support because of a
 disability is provided, for example adjustable benches are provided for those in wheelchairs.
 Specific work stations have been designed for those with physical impairments and specialist IT
 is provided for those living with vision loss. To disseminate research outputs guidelines and
 accessible templates are provided to all of our researchers through our Digital Asset
 Management system. We are working towards accessibility compliance for all of our
 research outputs, supported by the University Library.




                                                                                          Page 11
