Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Leeds Arts University

 1. Context and mission
 We are an influential, world-facing, creatively driven specialist arts university where professional
 educators, practitioners and researchers collaborate to develop and enable excellence. We
 promote distinctive, critically informed and relevant practice in order to support the economic
 growth and cultural advancement of individuals and society.
 The University has roots dating back to 1846 and the original Leeds School of Art. In 1842 the
 Leeds Mechanics Institute merged with the Literary Society, which led to the formation of The
 Leeds Government School of Design four years later.
 We gained University title in 2017 becoming Leeds Arts University, the only specialist arts
 university in the North of England.
 We undertook a significant building expansion project at our Blenheim Walk campus, completed
 in 2019, in order to widen our course offering and benefit our students. The new building
 includes a 230-seat performance auditorium, industry standard film and photography studios,
 enhanced fashion design studios, a new postgraduate study suite, a larger specialist arts
 research and reference library, and a public facing gallery.
 During 2019/2020 the University had a total of 2570 students. The higher education student
 population totalled 2100. There were 470 learners enrolled at the University’s FE campus.

 The University’s course portfolio is specialist and from September 2020 our offer includes:

 Postgraduate courses (taught):

 MA Animation
 MA Creative Practice
 MA Creature Design
 MA Curation Practices
 MA Digital Fashion
 MA Fine Art
 MA Graphic Design
 MA Graphic Novel
 MA Illustration
 MA Photography
 MA Worldbuilding

 Undergraduate courses:

 BA (Hons) Animation
 BA (Hons) Comic and Concept Art
 BA (Hons) Creative Advertising
 BA (Hons) Creative Writing
 BA (Hons) Fashion Branding with Communication
 BA (Hons) Fashion Design
 BA (Hons) Fashion Photography
 BA (Hons) Filmmaking
 BA (Hons) Fine Art
 BA (Hons) Graphic Design
 BA (Hons) Illustration
 BA (Hons) Photography
 BMus (Hons) Popular Music Performance
 BA (Hons) Textile Design
 BA (Hons) Visual Communication

 The University has ambition to gain Research Degree Awarding Powers and is formally engaged
 in a process with The Open University to become an Affiliated Research Centre which will allow
 us to offer Doctoral degrees.

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Deliberative committee structure showing committees that report to Academic Board and
 Senior Management Team (SMT)




 Management structure




 The University has developed the research culture over the previous seven years, establishing a
 Research Committee in 2013 that reports to the Academic Board. The Pro-Vice-Chancellor
 Academic routinely reports on research matters to the Senior Management Team and the Board

                                                                                          Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of Governors. The Head of Research produces an annual research report for consideration by
 the Research Committee. The Head of Research also chairs the Ethics Sub-Committee, which
 reports to the Research Committee.
 On 31 July 2020, the FTE of Category A staff on teaching and research and research only
 contracts was 70.44. Currently research at the university falls into two Units of Assessment
 (UoA): 32, Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory and 33, Music, Film and Performance.
 All academic staff who work in higher education are on teaching and research contracts or
 research only contracts. Members of staff on research only contracts comprise the Head of
 Research, the University Curator, two Research Fellows, the Progression Manager and one
 Research Associate.
 The University’s mission is published in the Strategic Plan 2017-2023. It states ‘We are an
 influential, world-facing, creatively driven specialist arts university where professional educators,
 practitioners and researchers collaborate to develop and enable excellence.
 We promote distinctive, critically informed and relevant practice in order to support the economic
 growth and cultural advancement of individuals and society.’
 The Strategic Plan includes aims that refer particularly to research:
 To continue to develop and progress relevant research practice which enhances teaching
 and learning, is globally significant and contributes positively to society.
      • To encourage and support collaborative approaches within our practices.
      • Through investment, recruitment, support and development to increase our proportion of
          academic staff whose research is rated as 2* and above.
      • To increase the number and range of collaborations with peer institutions in the UK and
          globally.
      • To increase the number of staff qualified to doctorate and masters level who support
          undergraduate and postgraduate students and increase the number of postgraduate
          students, particularly through international partnerships.
      • To advance our libraries, exhibitions and archives capability to support research.
 The University has been successful in meeting these aims through a Research Strategy 2013-
 2018 (amended and extended through to 2021 in 2019-2020). The approach taken by the
 University is to encourage independent research. The narrative about the University’s progress
 in developing research is explained in detail as part of the Unit of Assessment level environment
 statements.

 2. Strategy
 Strategic and infrastructure planning for research began before 2013. At this point, all staff
 teaching in higher education were appointed on teaching and research or research only
 contracts and a dedicated research budget was established. The Research Strategy 2013-2018
 (amended and extended through to 2021 in 2019-2020) was approved through the deliberative
 structure described in the previous section.
 The main objectives were to:
     1. Establish postgraduate programmes to enhance and progress practice-based research
         and scholarly activity in subject disciplines.
     2. Develop research across the College [University] and encourage international links to
         enhance research outcomes.
     3. Source research funding, as appropriate, from a wide range of sources.
     4. Support our staff and help them to develop their research practice; encourage internal
         collaboration; and, through external networks and meetings, enhance subject-specialist
         knowledge (especially as it relates to teaching and learning).
 In addition to the objectives described in the Research Strategy, a strategic Key Performance
 Indicator (KPI) for research of 20% of the REF 2021 submission being judged at being 2* had
 been agreed.
 Impact
 Impact arises from the researchers’ interests, networks, publics and audiences. Researchers are
 supported through the research budget in building long-term relationships with the beneficiaries
 of the research.
 Systematic support, training and mentoring are provided to those researchers whose work
 demonstrates impact outside academia. Activities that build impact are reported in the Research

                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Committee minutes and through the Vice-Chancellor’s report to the Board of Governors in
 regular updates. Research staff who are contributing to impact case studies are responsible for
 identifying, documenting, measuring and providing evidence for the impact of their work. The
 impact case studies are made visible to the public and are celebrated through the University’s
 website.
 Interdisciplinary research
 Where interdisciplinary research is central to a researcher’s practice it is facilitated through the
 research proposal process where individuals can request funds to support collaborative working
 with researchers from other institutions and disciplines.
 Open research
 The University is a member of Guild/HE Research and subscribes to its shared repository. The
 University is committed to making its research open and has employed a Research Co-ordinator
 to support this aim.
 Research Integrity
 The University’s Ethics Policy sets out the guiding principles of ethical practice and also the
 expectations relating to research integrity. Research misconduct is described in the Ethics Policy
 and addressed through the University’s disciplinary policy and procedure.
 The Ethics Sub-Committee plays an important role in supporting research integrity; it reviews the
 Ethics Policy every three years and reviews staff research proposals on an annual basis. It is
 able to meet and respond to ethical issues as they arise.
 The next five-year period
 As this is the first research assessment exercise that the University has undertaken it is
 important that the strategy over the next five years is based upon a reflection on the success of
 University policies, processes and procedures during 2013-2020. The outcome of REF 2021 will
 also inform this reflection.
 Developing strategy going forward
     • Publish a review of performance in REF2021 by the end of 2022 that informs the next
         research strategy.
     • Develop a new research strategy in light of experience gained from 2021 submission.
 Developing support for researchers
     • Through the process of continuous improvement, develop the research infrastructure to
         meet the particular needs of UoA 32 and UoA 33 researchers. It will provide support to
         newly established creative writing researchers from UoA 27 English Language and
         Literature.
     • Continue to support and develop researchers through current research internal funding
         mechanisms.
     • Support interdisciplinary research where it evolves from the researchers’ own interests,
         relationships and networks.
     • Utilise the University’s research galleries and specialist collections to facilitate individuals’
         research.
     • Use the HR Excellence in Research Action plan to drive improvement.
 Create practice-based PhDs
     • Achieve Affiliated Research Centre approval with a doctoral validating partner and begin
         supporting practice-based PhDs.
     • Develop clear and transparent policies and procedures relating to ethical review,
         research integrity and academic misconduct.
     • Develop approaches to support research students and ECRs.
     • Establish the Research Team within a space that is utilised by researchers and research
         students.
 Create successful distinctive research cultures at UoA level
     • Support the growth of distinctive research cultures appropriate to the diverse arts
         subjects represented in the University.
     • Ensure the diversity and inclusiveness of the research cultures that develop in the
         University.
 Develop sustainable research



                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •  Research Team to work on research bids for external funding that are appropriate for a
       specialist arts University.
    • Research Team to exploit their networks and expertise to promote knowledge exchange
       between the University and external partners in industry, the voluntary sector and
       local/national/ global communities.
 Develop meaningful and wide-reaching impact
    • Develop explicit support structures for identifying, developing, evaluating and measuring
       impact.
    • Support researchers to deepen the relationships they have with their audiences, publics
       and communities.
    • Identify new opportunities to promote impact where they arise from researchers’
       interests.
    • Provide training and mentoring for those who can claim impact based on their research.
    • Encourage collaboration internally and externally to promote impact.
    • Encourage an integrated research and impact approach to build ‘pathways to impact’
       where appropriate.

 3. People
 In 2013 the Director of Studies - Higher Education Enhancement and Research [now the Pro-
 Vice-Chancellor Academic with a responsibility for research] and a full-time Head of Research
 were appointed.
 Since then the Research Team has been established by the employment of two Research
 Fellows and a part-time Research Associate. These research-only roles were created to
 invigorate the University’s research culture and to provide support and mentoring for those on
 teaching and research contracts.
 A University Curator was recruited in 2015 to manage the University’s galleries. At this point
 Curation and Library activities became integrated with the University’s research strategy. A peer
 review process was established for exhibitions overseen by an international peer review panel.
 The University exhibition spaces are a critical part of the research environment where staff, as
 well high-profile international artists, can disseminate recognised creative practices.
 Developments in this area have led to increased public engagement.
 A full-time permanent role of Research Coordinator was also created in 2018 to provide
 technical expertise in managing the University’s repository.
 The University has been recognised for its innovative approach in developing practice-based
 research infrastructure by winning a Times Higher Education Award (THE) in 2016 for
 Outstanding Digital Innovation in Teaching or Research for a collaborative research project with
 the University of Leeds. In the period 2017-2019 the University received 5 THE shortlisted
 nominations related to research infrastructure projects.
 Teaching and research Category A staff are contracted to carry out 15 days research per
 academic year pro rata. The FTE for all Category A staff on the 31 July was 70.44. Over the
 previous seven years staff numbers have grown in areas of planned growth due to the
 development of undergraduate and postgraduate courses.
 Leeds Arts University is committed to supporting the development of all its staff including those
 involved in research. To demonstrate this commitment the University aligned its Human
 Resources policies and procedures with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. The University has been awarded the European Commission HR Excellence in
 Research Award in 2017 and 2019.
 All Category A staff are entitled to inductions and appraisals regardless of size and length of
 contract. Development needs are identified and approved through the appraisal process. Staff
 are given appropriate training and development. For example, between 2014 and July 2020 the
 University has supported a total of 18 staff members to obtain their PhD qualification. Some of
 that support is currently ongoing.
 The University is committed to equality and diversity in research careers. It has adopted an
 inclusive approach to the REF 2021 Code of Practice in spirit with the Stern Review 2016.
 Through its policies and procedures all Category A staff are supported financially to undertake
 their research irrespective of length and size of employment contract. The Selection Process
 noted in the Code of Practice has been designed to encourage all Category A staff to submit at

                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 least one output so that the breadth and diversity of research can be included in the REF2021
 submission.
 Research students
 The University currently has no research students.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The University’s research is funded through its income. There have been occasions where
 individual researchers have been successful in being awarded funds from external bodies such
 as the Arts Council. There is currently not an expectation that researchers source or secure their
 own research funding.
 Research is led by the Pro-Vice-Chancellor Academic who is chair of the Research Committee
 which reports to the Academic Board. The Board of Governors receives regular updates about
 the development of research and impact. The day-to-day management of Research is
 undertaken by the Head of Research who is also the chair of the Ethics Sub-Committee which
 reports to the Research Committee.
 The facilities have been planned and developed in line with the University’s mission and
 strategic plan mentioned above. In 2019 a £22m, state-of-the-art building expansion was
 completed in order to widen the range of courses offered and to benefit the students. The new
 building includes a 230-seat performance auditorium, large gallery, specialist industry standard
 music studios, industry standard film and photography studios, enhanced fashion design studios,
 a new postgraduate study suite and a larger specialist arts research and reference library. The
 library holds a comprehensive specialist artists’ book collection spanning publications from the
 previous 90 years.
 There is also a range of exhibition spaces around the University comprising The Blenheim
 Gallery, Vernon Street, The Boardroom, The Rotunda, Curator’s Choice and Librarian's Choice.
 The University Curator manages these spaces. They provide opportunities for academic staff to
 disseminate their practice-based research. The exhibitions programme also brings other
 practice-based researchers into the University. The Exhibitions Advisory Board provides
 valuable peer-review feedback to those researchers submitting to the exhibitions’ selection
 process. The University’s galleries are open to the public providing opportunities for the
 underpinning research to benefit audiences outside academia.
 The research and postgraduate teams are situated in the Blenheim Walk building. There are
 office spaces as well as large multi-purpose rooms with projection facilities that can be booked
 for research, impact and dissemination events. The Research Coordinator manages the Open
 Access provision for research outputs. They share an office with the exhibitions team and have a
 space in the University library. The research estate facilitates research and impact events
 relevant to the University’s researchers.
 The University is a member of GuildHE/Research, this is an important association as it provides
 research intelligence, information about the national research policy landscape and training
 opportunities. The University’s repository is part of a shared resource facilitated by
 GuildHE/Research. A full-time permanent role of Research Coordinator was also created in
 2018 to provide technical expertise in managing the University’s repository. Following this, the
 University developed an infrastructure for a repository deposit process. This enabled Category A
 staff to have access to the University repository after October 2018.




                                                                                             Page 6
