Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: De Montfort University
 1. Context and mission

 De Montfort University (DMU) was founded in 1870 with the aim of providing skilled workers to
 the then-booming city of Leicester; it was formerly known as the Leicester College of Art, then
 City of Leicester Polytechnic in 1969, becoming DMU in 1992.
 DMU has approximately 29,000 students and 2,700 staff. This includes about 600 postgraduate
 research (PGR) students. DMU is organised into four faculties: Arts, Design and Humanities
 (ADH); Business and Law (BAL); Computing, Engineering and Media Studies (CEM); and Health
 and Life Sciences (HLS). The richness and diversity of its research today is the result of a
 journey of strategic investment leading to DMU becoming almost unrecognisable from its origins
 as a technical teaching establishment. Our research themes are organised within and between
 research institutes and centres, creating an environment that supports specialisms, but also
 interdisciplinarity.
 As a relatively young University, DMU has striven to steadily increase its research base, and we
 have achieved that in this submission, with more than 43% of academic staff having significant
 responsibility for research. The allocation of research time was formally established in 2014 with
 a view to identifying staff with significant responsibility for research. In REF 2014, 218.2 staff
 were submitted across 12 Units of Assessments (UOAs). In 2021, 484.05 FTEs are being
 submitted to 13 UOAs, of whom 33% self-identify as Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME). To date,
 practice-based disciplines, such as Product Design and Nursing are developing researchers,
 while others, such as Computer Science, Engineering, English, History and Law have more-
 established research cultures.
 1.1 MISSION AND INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT OBJECTIVES: 2014–2021
 The University has always put the community of Leicester at its heart. It views itself as ‘a
 scholarly community that is committed to the public good and driven by an unrivalled ability to
 challenge convention and create impact’. DMU’s mission is to create a world-class and sector-
 leading environment to develop research that addresses real-world problems.
 Central to DMU’s ethos is the promotion of equality and diversity. DMU’s charter for equality,
 diversity and inclusion, DMUfreedom, sets out DMU’s ambition to be a sector leader in
 promoting fairness and inclusion. Inclusivity and diversity are at the heart of our research and
 investment strategy, in both people and infrastructure. One of only 17 Race Equality Charter
 award holders, we are committed to supporting diversity in research and researchers with
 increased representation of BAME and female PGR students and early career researchers
 (ECR). DMU was awarded a Bronze Athena SWAN in 2018, and a Gold TEF (Teaching
 Excellence Framework) outcome in 2017 that highlighted DMU’s ‘real-world research’.
 Areas of progress against objectives in REF 2014:
 1      Developing DMU’s research capability through strategic appointment of staff and
        investment in infrastructure. Progress: VC2020 recruitment (2.2, 3.1.1 to 3.1.3, 4.1).
 2      Further evolving and advancing our existing research themes. Progress: themed events
        and appointments (2.3,3.1.3).
 3      Building on international collaborative research. Progress: formation of research
        institutes and cross-disciplinary events supporting SDGs (2.1).
 4      Enhancing the experience of PGRs and ECRs. Progress: Future Research Leaders’
        Programmes (2013–), the Next Generation Researchers’ Programme and an enhanced
        training offer for PGRs through to early- and mid-career researchers (3.1.3, 3.2).
 5.     Deepening the positive impact upon society through research outputs and activities.
        Progress: investment in public engagement and impact through new initiatives, including
        DMUlocal, DMUglobal, Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 16 Hub and the creation of
        new research institutes and centres (2.1, 2.3, 4.2).



                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 DMU’s Research Strategy in REF 2014 articulated the desire to achieve ‘at a minimum,
 internationally recognised research in all areas of DMU research activity’ and a commitment to
 ‘expanding our research base’ and ‘deepening our research interventions’, goals which have
 been achieved in 2020.
 DMU’s current University Research Strategy (2018–2023) is organised around four key areas
 – Global, People, Societal Impact and Excellence. The 2018 strategy reflects our continuing
 commitment to supporting staff to produce internationally excellent, impactful research, in and
 beyond REF 2021, while one of the key objectives – that 60% of all academic staff should be
 research-active by 2023 – reflects our ongoing commitment to growing our research community.
 Our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity underpins our growing research culture.
 Given the vitality of our research, a more ambitious strategy, developing on these four pillars, is
 currently under development (2.5).

 2.1 GLOBAL
 Vital to our Research Strategy is our commitment to research that addresses global challenges.
 The University is committed to supporting the United Nations’ 17 SDGs through community work
 and ambitious research under four interdisciplinary research themes established in 2018, of
 lifelong well-being, social value, urban living and creativity in the digital age. The achievement of
 research and impact objectives, and the University’s investment in public engagement during the
 assessment period is evidenced in DMU becoming a hub for SDG 16, Peace, Justice and Strong
 Institutions (2017), the only UK institution to do so. DMU began its three-year tenure in January
 2019.
 Part of the success in securing Global Hub status has been our investment in strategic priority
 areas around global peace and social justice. DMU also works with the United Nations on
 projects to highlight the issue of forced migration. Part of the University’s remit is to commit to
 three major research projects every year until 2022 to further SDG 16.
 Our global approach is timely as we face the international challenges raised by issues such as
 Covid-19, Brexit, global economic transformation, well-being for a globally ageing population,
 changes to the world of work and our security. The objective of the DMU strategy is to foster
 development-related research that builds on our internationally recognised research into
 transport, energy, water, cyber security and the creative industries. This will allow us to respond,
 with our international partners, to the challenges of globalisation, climate change, power
 structures in flux and the consequent challenges of migration and economic growth.
 We have also invested Global Challenges Research Funds in areas that reflect the challenges
 facing developing countries and supported international networking through different internal
 funding programmes.
 The 17 SDGs are strategically embedded in our research culture, enabling academics ‘to
 answer some of the biggest challenges facing humanity, such as poverty, lack of housing and
 access to education’ (‘DMU: Our Economic Impact’, commissioned report, 2019). DMU is the
 lead institution in the United Nations’ #JoinTogether campaign – a global network of universities
 and organisations created to share ideas, projects and strategies on how to welcome refugees
 and asylum seekers to communities.

 2.2 PEOPLE
 DMU’s aspiration to be a more research-intensive university will entail having a more diverse
 and more highly qualified research community and our staffing strategy is twofold: increasing
 diversity and prioritising the next generation of researchers.
 1      Since 2014 we have taken a strategic decision to grow our research base through
        recruiting and nurturing ECRs through our prestigious Early Career Academic Fellows
        (ECAFs) and VC2020 streams (3.4). As of July 2020, 149 ECRs are in post (76 female


                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        and 73 male, with approximately 42% from BAME backgrounds), are prioritised in
        applications for funding and research leave (3.2, 3.4).
 2      Total staff in this submission include 44% female, 56% male, 33% BAME, 63.2% White
        (3.7% information withheld or not known), a significant improvement on 2014 (female/
        male 31%/69%; BAME/White 15%/83%).

 2.3 SOCIETAL IMPACT
 Our ambition is to be known for the societal impact of our research, locally, nationally and
 internationally.
 Through ongoing initiatives (4.2) such as DMUlocal (the University’s community engagement
 and outreach arm, supporting students and researchers to engage with groups and communities
 across the city), HEIF-funded collaborations with businesses and Innovate UK-funded
 knowledge transfer partnerships (KTPs), we ensure that our research impacts on a wide range
 of communities and beneficiaries. During the census period, these knowledge exchange
 interactions have included more than 120 DMUlocal projects, events and activities, working with
 more than 21,000 people in Leicester, and multiple KTPs with small to large companies, such as
 lingerie company Curvy Kate Ltd, which was enabled to launch a wider range of products and
 increase sales through better technical control and flexibility as a result of its KTP with DMU
 (2013–2015).
 Our commitment to the public good is reflected in our focus on research that has societal impact,
 evidenced by our investment in interdisciplinary projects such as DMUlocal, Local+ (4.2) and
 Talent25 (4.2). We have invested in areas that reflect the challenges facing the UK in areas such
 as Artificial Intelligence (AI) (Human Brain project), and future mobility (DMUglobal). DMU and
 Leicester City Council are working through DMUlocal on a series of joint projects designed to
 improve life for city residents, to ‘build back better’, particularly to respond to the Covid-19
 pandemic. Academics across DMU are working with the city to utilise their research and
 expertise to outline a co-produced agenda of ongoing research into health, technology,
 psychology, design, homelessness and facilitating inclusive economic growth.
 Through collaborations, networks and partnerships, our Research Strategy sets out to challenge
 conventional thinking in development-related research and in the creation of new knowledge to
 transform societies for the better. We utilise our research expertise to develop locally meaningful
 solutions in partnership with our national and international colleagues, such as Rolls-Royce,
 Deloitte, British Telecommunications and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-
 National Aerospace Laboratories, India.

 2.4 EXCELLENCE
 This pursuit of excellence will require us to develop an integral, pervasive and dynamic culture of
 research, ensuring research integrity across research units. As a signatory to the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity, we ensure that all research conducted under the auspices of the
 University is undertaken with integrity. We have set out our commitment ‘to improve
 accountability, and provide assurances that measures [are] taken to continue to support
 consistently high standards of research integrity’. We provide bespoke training to instil
 confidence in the concept and practice of ethics and integrity among our researchers and
 publish an annual statement outlining our activities to support research integrity; we have
 processes in place to deal with allegations of misconduct; and declare details of any formal
 investigations of research misconduct and outcomes.
 Our Open Access and Research Data Management policies encourage the deposit and open-
 access publishing of a wide range of output types and data in DMU institutional repositories –
 DORA (for text outputs) and DMU Figshare (for data, procured in 2018). To further demonstrate
 our commitment to the democratisation of data and resources, we are working with the
 Concordat on Open Research Data and have invested in a Research Development
 Management infrastructure incorporating a data repository, a research data officer to manage



                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 the repository and promote the concept of Open Data, and training both online and face to face.
 We have put in motion DMU Press, committed to open-access publications.

 2.5 FUTURE RESEARCH
 A new Research Strategy is in preparation for the next 5 years with a focus on interdisciplinarity,
 impact and inclusivity with a thematic structure embracing 5 areas of research (equality and
 social justice, digital communities, creative and heritage industries, well-being and net zero)
 which expand our current themes and which further encourage collaborations across disciplines
 and institutions. The new strategy will align with regional needs to allow support of place-based
 research opportunities across the East Midlands. We are investing in a Research and
 Scholarship Support Scheme (which will provide all staff with the opportunity to bid for teaching
 and research assistants from our PGR population), a new iteration of our peer-review process
 through a DMU Peer Review College which will provide further mentoring for staff applying for
 funding and PGR scholarships aligned with the new themes to enable our next generation of
 researchers to sustain and increase the vitality of our impactful and interdisciplinary research.
 3. People

 3.1 STAFFING STRATEGY
 Recruiting, supporting and prioritising the next generation of researchers and a commitment to
 equality, diversity and inclusivity underpin our strategy to staffing (2.2).
 3.1.1 Research Time
 Time is the key to developing researchers’ careers. Staff are able to apply for dedicated
 research time through an annual Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) exercise. Bands of
 time are allocated from 320 hours (one day per week) through 480 (one and a half) to 640 hours
 (two days per week). For those new to research, a Researcher in Training (320 hours) is offered.
 These allowances are in addition to a base 10% scholarship allocation for all academic staff for
 teaching or research development activity. Colleagues who successfully attract external grant
 funds that include staff buyout have this in addition to their RIA allowance.
 Since 2014, we have invested £201,391.33 (41 awards) in a competitive research leave
 scheme for colleagues with a specific project for which they need leave from the University for a
 period of time, or for which they need an additional travel or subsistence budget to undertake
 international, interdisciplinary fieldwork for research that helps to achieve the SDGs.
 3.1.2 Research Mentoring
 DMU has mentoring schemes for researchers in every faculty. Our central Researcher
 Development Team support academic researchers across all career stages. We celebrate
 ambitious and rigorous research through regular training and reward for excellence, for instance,
 through our outstanding contribution awards each year for our academic staff and PGRs.
 Researchers are also provided with media training, and encouraged to share ideas and develop
 their public engagement activities via digital, print, radio and TV. Workshops on promotions are
 run each year. Our 2019 action plans to support research career development earned DMU the
 European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award.
 3.1.3 Early Career Researchers
 Since 2014 we have prioritised the recruitment of early career academics, particularly through
 the flagship VC2020 Lectureships Scheme, uniquely designed to nurture the future
 researchers of tomorrow. Introduced in 2013, the VC2020 Lecturer Scheme has enabled ECRs
 to have designated time (two and a half days per week, equivalent to 50% FTE) in their first year
 to develop their research career; they have also had the opportunity to bid for up to £5,000 to
 amplify a particular project. Some 149 VC2020s and ECAFs (introduced in 2019) are currently in
 post. From 2019, there have been themed ECAF appointments in Social Value, Creativity in the
 Digital Age, Urban Living and Lifelong Well-Being, with the opportunity to turn these into
 permanent lectureships upon successful completion of one year.


                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The ambition now is to grow research capacity by having 60% of academic staff becoming
 research-active by the end of our current strategy (2023). We are also nurturing our research
 talent pipeline with a new Next Generation Researchers scheme (which has seen just under
 100 participants since its inception in 2019) where time, budget and mentoring are invested in
 academics who do not yet have significant responsibility for research (Researcher in Training
 awards, 3.1.1 above).
 In keeping with our commitment to the next generation and to research sustainability, a
 competitive programme was launched in 2013 to develop and nurture research leaders of the
 future. The Future Research Leaders Programme (£120,000 per annum) involves a year-long
 programme of mentoring, along with a £1,500 stipend. Nominated for a 2017 THE Award, the
 programme’s graduates have gone on to senior positions in our own and other universities
 (including a Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research)), and they have developed external grant-funded
 projects that have captured international media and academic interest, such as in the
 emergence of war hotels (UOA 28) and a recognised definition of ‘Islamophobia’ (UOA 17).

 3.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 The former Graduate School was rebranded and relocated (through a £200,000 investment) as
 the Doctoral College in 2018. The Doctoral Training Programme draws on expertise across the
 University, delivering face-to-face as well as online sessions. It also provides a variety of
 opportunities for students to showcase their research in different formats, as well as come
 together as a research community across disciplines. Employability training and advice are
 offered during and after completion of research degrees. DMU is part of the Midlands3/4Cities
 Doctoral Training Partnership (23 awards), and also has 2 EPSRC CDTs (Engineering and
 Physical Sciences Research Council Centres for Doctoral Training) and 6 AHRC CDTs (Arts and
 Humanities Research Council Centres for Doctoral Training). During the census period, the
 Doctoral College has funded 115 full scholarships (fees and stipend) and 98 fees-only awards.
 PGR students work within a research centre or institute and are an integral part of that
 disciplinary community. They have access to workshops and training sessions in those centres
 and in their home faculty, but they also participate in a rigorous and recently consolidated central
 Doctoral Training Programme which frames their research training and provides opportunities to
 meet other PGRs across the University to provoke interdisciplinary thinking and to widen their
 networks.
 DMU has:
 •      Participated in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). Participation in
        the 2020 survey was 48% (compared to 23% in 2018). Some 81% (national benchmark:
        80%) agreed they were satisfied with their research degree programme; DMU ranked
        16th and was positioned in the 2nd quartile.
 •      Invested in researcher development by creating the new post of a Researcher
        Development Manager.
 •      Invested in a PGR lifecycle management system currently being implemented (4.1).
 •      Provided central and subject-specific doctoral training programmes with an emphasis on
        employability during and after completion of research degrees for all PGR students; and
        made funds available of up to £500 for conferences and travel to PGR students without
        other sources of funding, and up to £2,500 for global opportunities to undertake research
        at institutions abroad. We have initiated a ten-year destination survey of PGR students in
        order to maintain support for our graduates and to capture inspiring success stories (for
        example, a Dean of Faculty in Indonesia, a CEO of a specialist eye hospital in Palestine
        and a lecturer in Contemporary Slavery at the Wilberforce Institute).

 3.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 The University has created an inclusive environment that was acknowledged by the accolade as
 the Sunday Times University of the Year for Social Inclusion 2018 because of the


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 significantly higher proportion of students from different ethnic and deprived backgrounds at
 DMU than other universities.
 Our research student and staff base is diverse. We regularly monitor gender and ethnicity data
 (from those staff who provide data) and address inequalities as they arise. Below is data on our
 PGR population, as at July 2020:
                        TABLE 1: PGR Students by Ethnicity (July 2020)
                                  Ethnicity                  No. of Students
                        Asian, Asian British or Mixed              132
                        Black, Black British or Mixed              106
                       Mixed - White and Black African               7
                       Not Known/Information refused                23
                                    Other                           56
                                   White                           273
                                    Total                          597

 On our prestigious ECAF and VC2020 streams, there are 76 female and 73 male candidates.
 About 42% of participants are from BAME backgrounds. Further, among our senior research
 professoriate, we have 70 men and 23 women, and just under a fifth are from BAME
 backgrounds.
 We have endeavoured to ensure diversity in the selection of our impact case studies (ICSs). Our
 ICSs are authored by 57% male and 43% female staff. Of the male authors, 82% are white, 18%
 BAME. Of the female authors, 91% are white, 9% are BAME. We recognise that while we have
 largely achieved gender balance in our ICSs, we are not there yet in BAME representation and
 we are working with our University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee to develop a
 strategy to increase this representation in the future.
 We biannually monitor progress against the actions set out in our Race Equality Charter and
 Athena SWAN action plans, which are designed to increase the diversity and progression of
 research-active staff. All our staff are required to undertake mandatory equality and diversity
 training, and there is further mandatory unconscious bias training for all those involved in REF
 preparation (see Code of Practice 13d).
 In allocating a streamlined panel-led process for research time allocation, panels have additional
 mandatory equality and diversity training (delivered by Advance HE and DMU’s Head of
 Equality) and seek to be gender- and BAME-diverse. Results of the research time allocation
 processes have been impact assessed and display marginally more favourable outcomes for
 women and BAME staff.
 DMU’s Flexible Working Policy (2014) enables ‘work practices and policies that support work–
 life balance’. The University is supportive of employees who need time off; and has established
 a policy (2017) setting how such requests should be dealt with, ranging from bereavement,
 domestic emergencies, illness and long-term caring responsibilities. As a measure of our
 commitment to equality and diversity, we were ranked the 31st most inclusive employer in Britain
 by lesbian, gay, bi and trans equality charity Stonewall in its Top 100 Employers list for 2019 and
 40th in 2020.
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The focus on ECRs and investment in future research sustainability has resulted in a reduction
 of external research grant income from 2014 to just over £28,000,000 over the census period.
 DMU has invested substantially in new research opportunities.

 4.1 INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH FACILITIES
 In the census period, our research vision has been achieved in a progressive investment of a
 £136,000,000 Campus Transformation Project providing a world-class teaching, learning and


                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 research space for students and academics. The project includes the restoration of the Great
 Hall of Leicester Castle and the towering Vijay Patel Building which includes designated
 postgraduate spaces and a new DMU Gallery.
 Our researchers are supported by Research Services, committed to consolidating existing, and
 developing new, collaborations. The service has expanded since 2014 from two teams (funding
 and research policy) into four teams – research support (for bid development), research
 governance, researcher development and the Doctoral College.
 Research is underpinned by a substantial and expanding archive, with the University’s Kimberlin
 Library at its heart – open every day, 24 hours a day. The Library and Learning Services has
 held the award of Customer Service Excellence since 2011 and at its latest assessment, the
 library and its staff were described as demonstrating ‘a very positive focused culture’. As part of
 the University’s continuing investment, plans are now being drawn to rebuild a state-of-the-art
 library and archive.
 The Library and Learning Service supports open access to research through: DORA, our open-
 access institutional repository for research; the recently established DMU Press; Figshare
 where users can make all of their research outputs available in a citable, shareable and
 discoverable manner; copyright advice and information support; our Wellcome-funded archival
 collections on sport; advice and services to provide citation data for research analysis; and a
 joint application with University of Leicester and Loughborough University that allows
 researchers to work with sensitive data through the Economic and Social Research Council
 (ESRC) Safepod.
 Our archive collection has been expanded with the creation of the DMU Heritage Centre to
 collect and preserve the University’s archive as well as securing other valuable archives that will
 have a significant impact on future research, such as the papers of Andrew Davies, Hammer,
 Peter Whitehead and Norman Wisdom.
 An IT infrastructure provides world-class facilities for all researchers. A recently procured
 management system (over £550,000) will enable standardised development processes for
 external research and commercial applications and a standardised ethics process, allowing the
 simplification of review and authorisation for projects. We have also invested in a new system for
 PGR management (over £250,000) to be launched in 2021.

 4.2 INITIATIVES
 DMU continues to make significant investment in its research infrastructure, including a
 £500,000 National Magnetic Resonance machine, a first of its kind in a UK university. In the
 census period, DMU established a cyber risk Research Security Operations Centre, costing
 £150,000, that allows the threat gauged by a cyber-attack to be assessed and investigated:
 £357,000 in a flight simulator and wind tunnel laboratory, and £1,500,000 in new rapid prototype
 and textile laboratories.
 A sample of our sector-leading research projects and external recognition illustrate the
 University’s commitment to challenging conventional disciplinary boundaries and establishing
 interdisciplinary research themes that address key societal challenges:
 •   The Cyber Technology Institute is recognised as a National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC)
     Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE-CSR), one of only 19
     awarded to higher education institutions in the country.
 •   Talent25 is a £2,800,000 ground-breaking project, jointly funded by DMU and Arts Council
     England (both contributing £1,400,000), aimed at studying the impact of exposing arts and
     culture to early-years children and seeing how that affects their development. The
     programme aims to run for 25 years until 2044 when the true impact on those babies
     exposed to the arts more than 20 years earlier can be assessed in adulthood.
 •   The University is playing a leading role in continuing public debates and research relating to
     issues of race and institutional racism, through two initiatives: Decolonising DMU, a
     programme, with a team of 13, that aims to directly tackle racial disadvantage and

                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     discrimination within the sector; and the new Stephen Lawrence Research Centre. Inspired
     by the loan of archival materials by Baroness Doreen Lawrence, documenting the Lawrence
     family’s fight for justice in the wake of their son’s tragic murder, the centre (opened in 2019
     with a £240,000 investment and a team of 7) has a mission to become a hub of world-
     leading and innovative research on race and social justice.
 •   Local+ is a joint initiative between the University and the local authority (£100,000, per
     annum, split between the two) that sees academics across the faculties working with
     Leicester City Council on four research projects trying to bring solutions to problems affecting
     thousands in the community, including improving poor health outcomes for those in deprived
     communities; helping develop a Smart City programme for Leicester; improving the urban
     environment as part of a redevelopment programme on a city estate and to improve the
     economic outlook for people in the most deprived areas of the city.
 •   The innovative and award-winning Square Mile India project (winner of the International
     strategy award at the THE Leadership and Management Awards in 2019) funded at £46,000
     per annum to support our India partners and students, contributes to our vision to contribute
     to the public good.
 The University’s commitment to the public good is also demonstrated by a public engagement
 budget of around £1,000,000 a year to support 11 staff to manage over 100 projects, mainly in
 the local community but also offering opportunities abroad including India, the United States,
 Thailand and a host of European countries.
 The research institutes and centres, formed after REF 2014, bring together academics from
 different disciplines to enhance research capability, consolidate expertise, build capacity and
 bolster collaborations. These units are all committed to embedding the United Nations’ 17 SDGs
 in their strategies to facilitate, encourage and reward future research impact.
 Many of DMU’s research institutes have international academic partners, established
 relationships with world-leading businesses, including Airbus, BT and Rolls-Royce, whilst also
 providing consultancy services to industry.
 An international journal is being established by DMU that brings together research that informs
 policy and practice to create impacts in the United Nations targets for SDG 16. DMU is investing
 a further £25,000 in the project’s first year, and aims that by 2028 the journal will be the foremost
 authority for research and information into SDG 16.
 Over the census period, a shift in focus to supporting the next generation researchers has been
 complemented through a programme of investment in future research and to the creation of a
 research environment that supports and develops equality, diversity and inclusivity.




                                                                                               Page 8
