Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: City, University of London

 1. Context and mission

 Research is fundamental to City, University of London (City, UoL). It sustains our identity as a
 university and the identity of staff as academics and researchers, and it is integrated with our
 mission to educate. The University’s research mission is to sustain an environment where
 academics can conduct excellent, original and rigorous research, across all disciplines
 represented in our five schools. Throughout the REF 2021 period, we have aimed to
 substantially increase the quality and intensity of research, and this period has had several
 notable milestones.

 City has been on a path of increasing research intensity for more than a decade. Joining the
 federal University of London in 2016 was an important signal both internally to colleagues and to
 the wider academic community of our commitment to pursue academic excellence.

 City was founded in 1894 as the Northampton Institute and became a university when ‘The City
 University’ was created by Royal Charter in 1966 and has maintained connection with its roots;
 combining outstanding strength in professional and practice-based scholarship with excellent
 research.

 The trajectory of increasing research intensity evidenced by the significant growth in Category A
 staff. In REF2021 City will submit 496 FTE Category A staff compared to 378 FTE in REF2014,
 a 31% increase. Over the same periods 981 PhDs were awarded compared to 561 to REF2014.
 City has also seen a near doubling of research grant income from £43m in REF2014 to £81m for
 this REF.

 City’s research strategy seeks to break down walls created by academic discipline-based
 departments. We have invested £3.3m of internal funding to create interdisciplinary research
 centres. This liberates academics to work across disciplinary boundaries to address complex
 societal challenges. Research at City provides the springboard for our engagement with the
 wider community. Our location in the heart of London between the legal, financial and
 governmental centres shapes engagement with professions, business and public authority.

 Strategic leadership and governance of research fall to the Deputy Vice-President (Research &
 Enterprise), a Research Committee and a strategic Research, Enterprise and Impact Strategy
 Board. Their role is to further the institutional approach to research partnerships and plan
 research investments. This group oversaw the development of City’s 2016 Research and
 Enterprise Strategy and is developing its next strategy from 2022.

 2. Strategy

 Research Strategy

 Our research strategy is built around a clear set of objectives to create and support an
 environment where academics and researchers can pursue research that makes a substantial
 contribution in its field whether in the natural or technical sciences, the arts, humanities or social
 sciences. The research expectations for faculty are clear: academic staff are expected to be
 active in research, to publish their intellectual efforts in the top academic journals or with notable
 university presses, and in most cases to have an impact on the relevant practitioner community.
                                                                                                 Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 City’s research strategy is to create an environment that facilitates and accelerates the influence
 of our research.

 To achieve these aims, City has (i) retained its best researchers and added to their numbers by
 recruiting world leading scholars to act as research leaders and mentors; (ii) paid particular
 attention to investing in the support and development of early career researchers whether from
 within the institution or hired from leading graduate schools; (iii) worked hard to ensure that
 academic pay and other HR policies offer an attractive environment (e.g. regarding teaching
 work-loads and sabbaticals); and (iv) offered financial support through effective use of quality-
 related (QR) funding, philanthropic donations and internal research funding schemes.

 Essential Science Indicators (ESI), which helps to identify top-performing research from the Web
 of Science, provides strong evidence that City’s research strategy is working. Taking 2010-14 as
 a baseline of 100% [See table below] City’s total papers, total citations and citations per paper in
 ESI increased by 30%, 59% and 100% respectively between 2010–14 and 2016–20, and top
 papers, those in the top 1% based on the number of citations received, more than doubled over
 the same period.




 In the next five years we plan to (i) increase the proportion of staff producing what would be
 considered internationally excellent [REF 3* quality or higher] research outputs to at least 60%;
 (ii) develop research capacity in new and existing disciplines; (iii) develop capacity for
 interdisciplinary research across the four main REF panels; (iv) increase research income to
 £15m pa; (v) cultivate vibrant research communities, sustained by a range of policies that
 support academic staff at all career stages, paying particular attention to equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI); and (vi) become part of successful doctoral training partnerships (DTPs).

 Engagement and Impact

 In producing excellent research, we aim to generate solutions to pressing societal problems. The
 current strategy focuses on reaching out to and engaging with new communities that reflect the
 increasing research intensity across the institution. We also seek to develop a closer relationship
 between research and impact, whether that entails commercialising intellectual property,
 influencing government and public authority decision-making, applying policy to clinical practice
 or successfully implementing artistic endeavour. Engagement often has a civic and local
 dimension, illustrated by City taking leading and service delivery roles on a £3.2m ERDF project
 that supported 800 SMEs and created 955 jobs. This strategy builds on City’s strong culture of
 extensive knowledge exchange (KE) activities; as recognised by its relatively high levels of HEIF
 funding – £2.3m pa – for an institution of its size and STEM/non-STEM subject mix.

 Engagement activities are incentivised through the academic workload allowance, supported by
 KE teams (12 FTE staff) working across the university’s 5 schools. External visibility, including
 the external impact of our faculty, is one of the four performance criteria against which
 individuals are assessed in promotion review processes. Aspiring professors should provide


                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 strong, sustained evidence of industry/community engagement with proven benefits to the
 University and that community.

 Many of our academics have developed prominent profiles in the UK media. This is supported
 by the Communications Team (6 FTE staff), comprising former journalists and trained science
 communicators. In 2019/20 the team worked with 382 academics to produce 447 news articles
 including 97 stories based on new research outputs. In addition, City is a founding member of
 The Conversation, where academics write about their research for a general audience. Staff
 have published over 600 articles on the site, generating 6,700 comments and 10m reads.

 City’s five-year impact strategy is to continue embedding an institutional culture of engagement
 and impact. To achieve this, (i) impact support will be increased and better integrated with the
 work of our business development managers so that impact is embedded in the design process
 earlier in the development of new research; (ii) skills training will be provided in specific areas
 such as academic consultancy, project evaluation and engaging with parliamentarians; (iii)
 research centres will work to develop and implement strategies that shift understanding of
 impact away from individuals and small groups towards a collective strategic goal; and (iv)
 impact and KE will be better embedded in HR policies, recognising the importance of capturing
 the contribution of impact in appraisal, promotion and sabbatical policies.

 Integrity

 City regards research integrity as a core value and has a longstanding commitment to ensuring
 that it is embedded in its research culture and activity. The University is a member of the UK
 Research Integrity Office, which advises on ethics and research integrity. All staff and students’
 research that involves human subjects is subject to review by the University research ethics
 committee. We comply with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity by having an integrity
 champion in each school, an institutional whistleblowing policy for academic misconduct, and an
 annual statement on how we are meeting the Concordat obligations. The University also
 ensures relevant training, has appointed integrity champions in schools and has researcher
 integrity as a standing item on School research committee agendas. Finally, City is currently
 developing a policy on the responsible use of research metrics based on the principles in the
 Leiden Manifesto.

 Open Research

 Since 2012 City expects its staff to deposit the ‘final author version’ of their journal articles in the
 University’s open access (OA) repository, City Research Online (CRO); this requirement has
 since been extended to papers from 2008 onwards. CRO underpins our OA strategy. It contains
 over 15,000 research outputs and almost 2,000 doctoral theses. The Repository team
 proactively engage with our researchers via a number of channels, advocating OA principles and
 benefits and also ensuring copyright and any other rights of research outputs are respected.
 This service develops continuously in line with higher education’s rapidly changing OA
 landscape. City has invested over £1m in OA infrastructure, support staff, training, service
 contracts and Article Processing Charges for selected Gold OA outputs. Our policies promoting
 an open science culture are supported by an annual ‘OA and Research Data Week’. A recent
 global study ranked City 2nd of 963 HEIs with 88% outputs in OA. Moreover, 96% of submitted
 staff have an ORCID identifier.

 City uses Figshare to share research data under a Creative Commons licence, addressing the
 widely recognised problem of researchers withholding negative results. City has partnered with


                                                                                                  Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Springer-Nature to help researchers structure their data in an open and accessible way,
 maximising potential for reuse.

 Interdisciplinarity

 City has significantly enhanced its interdisciplinary and thematic research capacity. Since 2014,
 it has invested £3.3m in seven new or existing interdisciplinary clusters: cyber security, data
 science, food policy, gender and sexuality, healthcare and innovation, space research, and
 violence and society. The investment has supported the recruitment of eight new full-time
 academic staff and four research fellows. Given the interdisciplinarity inherent in addressing
 ‘grand challenges’, City uses its QR-GCRF allocation for small (up to £15k) awards to enable
 researchers to prepare the groundwork for competitive funding calls and to encourage new
 cross-university collaborative projects. Staff have won interdisciplinary grants in major
 ‘Challenge’ calls including £3.5m for a National Centre for Creativity Enabled Artificial
 Intelligence through the Research England Development Fund.

 Addressing Regional and National Priorities

 City, in common with its main competitors, does not seek to impose a research agenda on its
 faculty. However, the University does influence the overall research activity through the
 organisation of research clusters, the allocation of internal research funding, and an institutional
 strategy that aims to closely align the University with national funding priorities and the ‘demand
 pull’ market for the knowledge that we produce. New research centres must fit with ISCF and
 GCRF goals while our HEIF investments take account of the government’s R&D Roadmap
 objectives. Examples include, The Centre for Food Policy’s participation in the UK Sustainable
 Food Future Programme; the Institute for Cyber Security participates in the National Cyber
 Security Programme; and the faculty-led business start-up unit located in our local Borough of
 Islington. Together these activities illustrate how important we consider place-based outcomes of
 our KE activities.

 Support for Research Collaborations
 Our enhanced research quality, stronger ambition and brand-strengthening through UoL
 membership have resulted in increased partnership opportunities. The University Research and
 Enterprise Office supports partnerships through advice, bid support, contract management, post-
 award administration and audits. Additionally, staff may use their individual research accounts, a
 generous annual conference budget and a proportion of grant overheads for visits to facilitate
 building research collaborations. City collaborates with other HEIs through regional networks
 including (i) the London Higher Education Research Network; (ii) London’s Knowledge Quarter
 of academic, cultural and media organisations; (iii) the Culture Capital Exchange, an AHRC-
 funded network of arts, cultural and creative sectors in the capital; and (iv) the London
 International Development Centre. City was ranked 46th in the UK for collaborations (26th within
 social science) in the 2020 Leiden global rankings.

 3. People

 Academics and researchers are at the heart of City’s research strategy and each School and
 department is encouraged to take a strategic view of the recruitment and retention of academic
 staff; whether senior research leaders or younger colleagues seeking to establish their own




                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 careers as academic researchers. The overall aim being to grow in a way that maintains or
 increases the quality of our research.

 The main focus is the recruitment of junior staff – from top graduate schools or looking for their
 first significant promotion – with clear potential to undertake leading-edge research in areas
 relevant to our mission. This is supplemented by the hiring of senior staff with leadership
 experience, often to head departments, schools or research centres. We are submitting 496 FTE
 Category A staff compared to 378 for the previous REF. While the increase reflects changes to
 the REF ‘rules’, it is also a positive illustration of City’s increased research strength.

 Recognising the distinctive nature of some of City’s schools and departments with backgrounds
 in professional training, we introduced two clear career pathways in 2014: ‘Education’ and
 ‘Education & Research’. These offer opportunities for academic development and promotion and
 are supported by an agreed set of performance metrics, set out broad expectations for academic
 staff across research, education, service and enterprise activities. An annual appraisal identifies
 performance indicators for promotion: the production of 3* and 4* outputs (as determined by
 peer review), internal service, external visibility and (for those on the Education & Research
 path) the attraction of external funding. We monitor the number of female academics producing
 3* or 4* research outputs and make adjustments for staff with disabilities, care responsibilities or
 maternity leave.
 The University has a generous sabbatical policy in which a member of academic staff may apply
 for leave equivalent to one-seventh of their service at this University. Since 2014, 180 faculty
 have taken sabbatical leave. In addition, City will soon allow research-excellent staff with
 internationally excellent and world-leading research outputs to take an additional period of
 research leave of one term.
 City provides a framework, opportunities and funding to help faculty steer their own professional
 development by (i) Hands-on sessions with external experts to help staff fine tune papers and
 grant applications, (ii) The Staff Doctoral Track which has enabled 19 staff to obtain a PhD
 without interruption to their work, and (iii) Senior staff mentor junior staff to help them develop
 their publications and understand academic publishing.


 Equality and Diversity

 We are committed to recruiting, retaining and promoting exceptional academic staff from a
 variety of backgrounds. We amend policies and practices as required and work with schools to
 find appropriate ways to support diversity as part of our everyday working practices. For
 example, following adjustments to the parental leave policy, staff returning after maternity leave
 has increased to 95% (from 80% in 2017/18).
 In 2020 the University approved its first comprehensive institutional EDI Strategy following a
 consultation with staff networks. EDI is embedded through staff development programmes,
 including ‘Dignity and Respect in the Workplace’, ‘Inclusive Leadership’, and the ‘Advance HE
 Aurora’ leadership programme. Since 2014, the majority of staff who line-manage have
 undertaken inclusive leadership training. The number of people who have taken ‘Dignity and
 Respect in the Workplace’ since the beginning of 2014 is 537 while 67 staff have attended the
 Aurora programme.
 The current academic and research staff profile is as follows, with comparisons to sector average
 (SA):


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   Total: 946 of whom 541 (headcount) have significant responsibility for research.
    •   Gender: 46.5% are women (46.6% SA); 26.3% of professors are women (28% SA).
    •   Ethnicity: 16.6% are from ethnic minority groups (16.4% SA).
    •   Disability: 5.3% have declared a disability (4.6% SA).
    •   International: staff: Category A submitted staff include 48 nationalities.
    •   Employment contract: 94.5% are on permanent contracts and 5.5% on fixed-term contracts
        (67% permanent and 33% fixed-term SA).
    •   Early career researchers (ECRs): 31 staff are self-declared ECRs (N/A SA).
    •   Age: 7.9% are over 65 years (3.7% SA).


 City achieved the Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2016 and has since commenced work on an
 action plan led by the Athena SWAN Implementation Group, which regularly reports on progress
 to the University Executive Committee. Two schools now have their own Athena SWAN Bronze
 award and the other three aim to submit in 2020/21. Each School has an EDI Lead who reports
 to the Equality Committee and School Executive Committees to ensure that EDI features in
 decision-making processes e.g. internal research evaluation. Promotion panels must have
 regard to gender balance. We have set the target that at least 30% of professorial staff will be
 women by the end of 2021, up from 24.8% in 2019, and we strive to include members of all
 protected groups as well.
 Following the withdrawal of a statutory retirement age, a small number of older faculty have
 chosen to continue to work beyond the age of 65. They continue to research, hold leadership
 positions and act as ambassadors for the institution. In 2020, City became a Stonewall Diversity
 Champion and also embarked on the Race Equality Charter self-assessment with plans to
 submit for the Bronze Award in 2022. Finally, we are proud to be a member of the Disability
 Confident scheme, which recognises employers who are committed to supporting applications
 from candidates with a disability or long-term health condition.
 Early Career Researchers
 The recruitment, training and retention of ECRs has been a key activity over the REF period due
 to the expansion of new lectureships. Schools have reduced junior faculty’s teaching loads to
 help them focus on publication and adjust to the demands of teaching; only in their third year do
 they assume the full teaching load. These provisions – alongside extensive mentoring, priority
 access to research pump-priming funds, training and (in some cases) new building space – offer
 a competitive package for junior hires. City has held the HR Excellence in Research Award since
 2012.

 Permanent contracts are now the norm, with only 5.5% of academic and research staff on fixed-
 term contracts. Only 14 Category A submitted staff are on fixed-term contracts, and these are
 staff holding fellowships. Research-only staff have terms and conditions of employment
 equivalent to those of academic staff, with those on Grades 5B moving to 6 upon successful
 completion of a PhD then progressing automatically and incrementally to Grade 7 once the top
 of the salary scale is reached. Finally, bridging funding is available to research staff supported
 through research grants to maintain employment and retain the skills of such staff in between
 grants.

 Doctoral Researchers



                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 While each UOA has its own PhD programme, the institutional mission is to offer promising
 master’s graduates with an excellent academic track record rigorous training to become creative,
 productive, autonomous researchers. A thriving PhD programme is of paramount importance to
 our schools and a major factor for many staff that we hire. We submitted 75% more doctoral
 degrees awarded in REF2021 than in REF 2014 (981 vs 561) with graduates from 77 nations,
 and currently have 600 registered doctoral researchers – more than one per Category A staff
 submitted.

 In 2019 City reorganised its research training and created a new Doctoral College to improve the
 student experience, promote interdisciplinary work, share good practice on research supervision,
 improve student progression and completion rates, and represent postgraduate research issues
 across the institution. The Doctoral College is led by an assistant vice-president, a senior
 member of faculty who chairs the Doctoral College Board of Studies. The Board brings together
 senior figures from across the institution with responsibility for PhD programmes. It maintains the
 academic quality of those programmes through mechanisms such as approving transfers from
 MPhil to PhD status, confirming thesis examiners, guiding institutional policy, and reviewing
 completion and attrition rates and alumni outcomes. The Doctoral College also oversees our
 Researcher Development Programme: an annual series of events on research methods, career
 development and mental health awareness. Local training is augmented via our membership of
 the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network, and we have also invested in licences for LinkedIn
 Learning for self-directed study.

 While cross-UOA supervision is growing in popularity with 55 such doctoral degrees awarded
 since 2014, every student is registered in only one department, which is ultimately responsible
 for the quality of their training. Any member of staff who wishes to supervise research students
 must have a good research record and must attend a mandatory module on the MA in Academic
 Practice. There is a limit to the number of students an individual supervisor may supervise,
 usually six. Students may take study leave to pursue their work elsewhere but City’s procedures
 relating to risk assessment, health and safety, and ethics must be followed.

 The provision of scholarships is an important factor in attracting top-calibre students. City hosts
 or participates in three UKRI DTPs: the £9.1m South East Network for Social Sciences ESRC
 DTP, spanning ten leading UK universities; a £5m BBSRC CDT on sustainable food; and a
 £0.5m EPSRC DTP (host). In addition, since 2019/20, supported by the European Institute of
 Innovation and Technology, City has led a new Industrial DTP in AI Technology and
 Cybersecurity. Finally, we currently fund 127 full scholarships from internal resources. Doctoral
 researchers undertaking teaching are put on graduate teaching assistant employment contracts
 and paid in addition to any studentship or bursary amounts they receive, with hours capped in
 line with prevailing UKRI norms to prevent overload and ensure that adequate research time is
 preserved.

 City uses annual reports and periodic reviews (every six years) to scrutinise the effectiveness of
 its doctoral studies procedures and environment. These reviews cover staff–student ratio, four-
 year submission rates (seven-year for part-time candidates), candidates’ satisfaction rating of
 their supervision and research environment, application and acceptance data, formal complaints,
 pastoral care, learning support, student feedback and representation, and career destination
 information. City participates in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey to gauge
 research students’ feedback.



                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding
 External Funding
 Institutional strategies and supporting activities for generating research income across research
 units include: (i) year-long sabbaticals to reinvigorate individuals’ research, subject to an
 approved workplan, often including a research funding application; (ii) increased provision and
 better-targeted training for preparing grant proposals, especially getting staff to think about the
 types of deliverables funding bodies require and how these can be designed into their proposals;
 (iii) development of grant ‘coaching’ by senior staff in some UOAs, replacing an earlier
 conception of mentoring; (iv) generous provisions to return overheads from research grants to
 PIs, enabling them to provide bridging salaries to RAs/RFs to increase career security and
 research continuity; (v) targeted support for low-income UOAs to increase grant capture,
 resulting in a doubling of income for Music and ten-fold increases for Politics and for Law; (vi)
 installation of the Worktribe grant system to monitor grant success rates, thereby informing
 strategic decision-making while enabling PIs to keep track of income and expenditure; and (vii)
 reorganisation of our research support infrastructure, resulting in the addition of two research
 grant officers and dedicated contracts and post-award finance teams.

 Due to these measures, City’s research income has increased from £8.6m pa in REF 2014 to
 £11.6m pa in this REF, totalling £81.2m over the REF period. City ranks in the UK top 40 for
 Horizon2020 income, and UKRI sources are a healthy percentage of all research income at
 24%.

 Internal Funding
 City has invested significant resources to help stimulate faculty’s research. These include the
 following internal funding schemes, which are in addition to School-based funding:

  University Research Pump-Priming Fund                                                    £0.56m
  HEIF funding for knowledge exchange                                                        £15m
  Academic sabbatical leave                                                                  £8.9m
  Investment in interdisciplinary centres                                                    £3.3m
  Surpluses and uncommitted grant income returned to PIs                                     £6.3m
  Total internal research investment                                                      £34.06m

 Together with external funding of £81.2m, this represents a very significant investment to
 ensure the vitality and sustainability of our research culture. City is also developing enhanced
 processes to ensure the sustainability of our funding streams, such as the creation of separate
 vice-president roles for research and for enterprise to support the needs of funders with different
 time horizons.

 EDI and Research Funding
 Our Athena SWAN action plan ensures EDI is deeply embedded in our research and enterprise
 policies, practices and culture. The researcher training programme includes the module ‘Women
 and Research’, which enables experienced female researchers to share their experiences and
 discuss how they overcame career challenges. Among 1,569 funding applications for the period

                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2014/15–2018/19, the success rates were 27.75% for female PIs and 25.26% for male PIs.
 Finally, internal funding schemes prioritise ECRs and returning scholars.

 Equipment and Estate
 During our two strategic plans (2012–2016, 2016–2021), City invested approximately £200m in
 new academic staff, IT, libraries and estate. Investments in the REF period included (i) a new
 building for City Law School offering 7,200m2 of floor space costing £65m. Four of our five
 schools have now moved into new buildings since 2002; (ii) refurbishment of the offices of the
 European Social Survey (European Research Infrastructure Consortium, headquartered at City);
 (£1m) (iii) provision of offices for the new interdisciplinary Centre on Violence and Society
 (£0.5m); (iv) leasing of a new executive education facility for the Business School (£1m); (v)
 upgrading of the Thermo-Fluids Test Cells, enabling research into reduction of emissions from
 combustion engines (£5m); (vi) substantial investment in City’s main research library, resulting in
 major increases in the numbers of study spaces and data resources, and improved accessibility
 (£21m); and (vii) additional investment in specialist infrastructure in applied health sciences,
 notably a £6.03m investment in optometry and radiography.

 Digital Infrastructure
 Maintaining an up-to-date IT infrastructure is very important to City’s research, particularly in
 facilitating collaboration with researchers at other institutions. To help ensure a closer alignment,
 Library Services, Research and IT meet regularly to discuss new ways to create a better digital
 research community.

 City has invested heavily in high-powered computing (HPC) facilities to accommodate the
 demands of intense computing for researchers and teaching. In 2020 we signed a contract with
 Dell to implement the service, and we are investing £700k for HPC infrastructure constituting
 approximately 3,500 cores and 30,000 GB of RAM. The move to the new HPC service as
 opposed to workstations, allows more users of HPC to benefit from the investment.

 Library Services
 Library Services is a partner in the scholarly research lifecycle, helping to maximise the impact
 of research through conservation, dissemination and promotion. There are over 150 University-
 wide databases available to support education and research. Since 2014, the Library has
 invested significantly in online resources as the provision of published information has
 modernised. Library Services subscribes to over 100,000 online journals (an increase of 128%
 since REF 2014) and over 200,000 online books (up 421%). Researchers continue to have
 access to the print collections in our libraries and can request books for purchase through the
 Library’s Read for Research scheme. Library access (including access to online resources) has
 further improved through the University’s membership of the UoL. Since 2016 our researchers
 have had full access to Senate House Library and its outstanding arts, humanities and social
 science collections as well as digital resources and study spaces.

 The Library has dedicated research librarians who offer one-to-one support for researchers and
 run workshops in key areas such as literature searching, citing and referencing, copyright and
 specialist database support. The Director of Library Services is a member of the University’s
 Research Committee and the UoL’s Federal Libraries Group. The Head of Academic Library
 Services is a member of the Doctoral College Board of Studies.



                                                                                                Page 9
