Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 1. Context and mission

 Nottingham Trent University (NTU) is experiencing ‘a period of unprecedented success’ (Good
 University Guide, 2018), recognised by three University of the Year awards since 2017. This
 derives from rigorous implementation of its institutional strategy - ‘Creating the University of the
 Future’ - articulated under five strategic themes in 2015. One strategic theme was Valuing Ideas,
 focused on research, innovation and impact.

 NTU’s research has attracted specific accolades, including the Queen’s Anniversary Prize,
 2015, for research into safety and security. Nottingham Business School (NBS) gained EQUIS
 accreditation following forensic examination of its research credentials. Research teams in the
 School of Social Sciences (SoSS) won the Office of National Statistics Research Excellence
 Award, 2019. Professor Carole Perry from the School of Science and Technology (SST)
 received a Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award. Professor Paul Evans, also from SST, was
 appointed a Royal Society Wolfson Fellow, given the Institute of Physics Dennis Gabor Medal
 and Prize, and the THE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Innovation and Technology.

 Valuing Ideas foregrounds partnership. This REF period has seen the commencement of
 research collaborations with the Universities of Birmingham, King’s College London, and
 Southampton on economic development, student access and participation, and e-textiles,
 respectively. NTU is a lead organisation in the Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA) of 20 universities
 across England and a member of both the AHRC Midlands4Cities (M4C) Doctoral Training
 Partnership (DTPship) and the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council
 (BBSRC) Doctoral Training Programme (DTProg). NTU has created a unique civic partnership
 with the University of Nottingham: Universities for Nottingham.

 Strong relationships internationally include a growing portfolio of research collaborations and
 joint doctoral programmes. These include: NBS’s joint appointments with Copenhagen Business
 School; the School of Architecture Design and the Built Environment’s (ADBE) work with the
 universities of Mosul and Wasit (and Leeds and Durham) on preserving the cultural heritage of
 Iraq; and the SoSS Skin Integrity Group’s partnership with the universities of Tokyo and
 Montpellier. Doctoral programmes include: EU Horizon 2020 International Training Network with
 16 European partners; joint award programmes with IIT Bombay in STEM and social sciences;
 and with Universidade Catolica Portuguesa (Porto) and Universitat Ramon Llull (Barcelona) in
 Applied Psychology.

 Outside academia, partnership underpins formal strategic agreements with local public service
 organisations and major businesses that enable research that drives innovation. This is
 exemplified by NTU’s professional doctorate offer – with 113 completions in this REF cycle –
 and by multi award-winning place-based research in the SoSS on reducing reoffending amongst
 sexual offenders with HMP Whatton and work by NBS to enable Boots, the largest private local
 employer, to tackle the gender pay gap.

 NTU is amongst the ten largest universities in the UK. It enrolled over 34,000 students,
 encompassing almost 800 postgraduate research students, in 2019/20. They are taught by over
 2,000 academic staff, up by over 400 since July 2013, representing a cumulative increased
 investment in academic capacity of around £25m per annum. Furthermore, since 2015 NTU has
 invested significantly in enhancing academic leadership, reaching £1.4m every year in 2020.
 Overall, these investments have resulted in 421 academics being returned in REF 2021
 compared to 267 in REF 2014.

 Annual income stood at £330 million in 2019/20, of which over £20 million was funding body
 grants. NTU benefits from philanthropic donations to support research, such as £2.82 million
 from the van Geest Foundation Cancer Research Fund. It has spent £45m on facilities that
 support research and enterprise within a £166m capital programme over the REF period.

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 NTU has nurtured synergies across mature disciplinary research strengths to build five areas of
 research priority: Health and Wellbeing; Medical Technologies and Advanced Materials; Global
 Heritage; Sustainable Futures; and Safety and Security of Citizens and Society. These priorities
 reflect the mission in Valuing Ideas to ‘change the world’ and to ‘working across boundaries’.
 They align to UN Sustainable Development Goals, connect to UK grand challenges in research
 and innovation in the Industrial Strategy, and map to the Midlands Engine regional goals. Each
 priority area is led by a multi-disciplinary team sustained by resources totalling £1.8m across the
 REF cycle.

 Investment in research leadership is exemplified by appointment of eight Associate Deans for
 Research (ADRs, one per School), who have strengthened NTU’s network of research centres
 to realise its commitment to ‘intellectual depth’. The NTU Doctoral School has been re-energised
 to enhance the experience of doctoral candidates, achieving above sector-average overall
 satisfaction score of 82% in PRES 2019. Twenty-two posts have been created in newly-
 centralised research development and support teams - an annual investment of £1.13m - to
 complement specialist input to researchers from finance and legal services.

 Achieving impact through innovation is central to Valuing Ideas. Nottingham has a large
 concentration of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs). Consequently, the University has
 invested £8m in a new Enterprise and Innovation Centre co-funded by Ministry for Housing,
 Communities and Local Government (MHCLG) and the D2N2 Local Enterprise Partnership
 (LEP).

 Over the REF period, NTU has match funded £10m to European Structural and Investment Fund
 (ESIF) grants of £13.7m, enabling engagement with over 1800 businesses; this represents one
 of the largest support programmes to SMES in the UK. The D2N2 LEP put £9.7m towards the
 £23m cost of the Medical Technology Innovation Facility (MTIF), which has a dual base on
 NTU’s Clifton Campus and the Boots City site, and £0.8m towards the Smart Wireless
 Innovation Facility (SWIFt, a collaboration with Digital Catapult).

 2. Strategy

 Valuing Ideas sets out the University’s strategic research vision to: “possess strong relationships
 and robust processes that enable discovery, drive innovation, and change the world, our
 students, and ourselves”; and “promote our disciplinary breadth, our intellectual depth, and our
 commitment to working across boundaries”. The Board of Governors adopted two Key
 Performance Indicators (KPIs) to monitor delivery of NTU’s research ambitions: number of
 registered doctoral students; and research grant and contract income. The following paragraphs
 describe delivery on the commitments within Valuing Ideas.

 ‘We will implement a robust strategy to expand our research excellence and further our
 capability and capacity to be a valued partner in projects of high commercial and public
 salience’

 This undertaking drove investment of over £4m every year into front-line research through QR
 funding and £3.5m of University resources to a PGR Scholarship Fund. Another £1.4m per
 annum supported the creation of research leadership posts, including the new role of Deputy
 Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise. ADRs brought senior disciplinary expertise and
 experience to generating school research plans and enhancing collegiate research
 environments. These school research plans shape the institutional-level research and innovation
 policies through the Academic Research Leadership Team (ARLT). Established in 2015, ARLT
 has championed new research centres, identified NTU’s five priority research areas, and led
 activity around research ethics, integrity and impact. ADRs are also members of both the
 University Research Committee and University Leadership Team, putting research at the heart
 of institutional decision making.


                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Two further posts support the DVC (R&E), leading new teams on Knowledge Exchange and
 Enterprise, thus linking academics better with funders, partners and collaborators. As a result,
 local businesses have been able to deliver 51 new to market products and introduce 324 new to
 firm products. The University has made 40 new patent applications and created four new spin
 outs that joined an existing portfolio of five companies, with total estimated external investment
 of £1,338,000; the most recent was into Halo X Ray Technologies Ltd which secured £500,000.
 There have been 23 jointly-funded collaborative PhDs since 2017 and 13 KTPs, together worth
 over £2.5m.

 Nottingham Civic Exchange is an NTU-funded Think Tank focused on the local impact of its
 research. By investing £737k since 2015, academics have enhanced the influence of their
 research on topics such as modern slavery. This regional focus underpins NTU sponsoring the
 Nottingham Festival of Science and Curiosity, a programme of over sixty free events focused on
 science, engineering and technology.

 During the REF period, NTU has created six posts in a Strategic Partnerships team to stimulate
 relationships with major private and public service enterprises, for example, Nottingham
 Universities Hospitals Trust (NUHT) and Fujitsu. Formal agreements set out programmes of
 mutual activity to drive knowledge exchange. This team also facilitates cultural partnerships
 where NTU has put £1m into its relationships with Nottingham Castle Trust, Nottingham
 Contemporary, Nottingham Playhouse and Nottingham UNESCO City of Literature.

 NTU has invested £245k in bespoke public affairs support over the last five years. This has
 facilitated academic colleagues in optimising the impact of their research on politicians and
 policy-makers. NTU academics have submitted 38 evidence statements to Parliamentary Select
 Committees since 2014 and made at least ten appearances.

 A constructive relationship with the media is central to impact. Three members of the
 communications team develop stories derived from research. Since 2014, more than 1,150 NTU
 research news stories have appeared in national and international media, alongside almost
 4,000 stories where academics have provided expert comment. They have featured: on BBC
 Radio 4’s Today Programme, World at One and In Our Time; on BBC TV’s Breakfast, Newsnight
 and The One Show as well as Sky News; and on the front pages of The Times, Sunday Times
 and Daily Telegraph.

 NTU was one of the initial partners of thought-leadership website, The Conversation. This
 platform has carried some 635 pieces from NTU academics, amassing almost 29 million views.
 In 2019, NTU was top among UK universities for total readership, attracting 5.5 million views
 globally and reproduction in prestigious outlets such as The Washington Post and Scientific
 American.

 ‘We will develop and nurture the next generation of researchers’

 The Doctoral School provides comprehensive support, skills training, and community focus for
 all postgraduate researchers. NTU is proud of the diversity of its doctoral cohort; in 2019/19,
 28% of UK-domiciled PGRs identified as BAME, which is considerably above the sector
 average. Growth has been driven by significant investment in circa 60 new awards per annum
 for PhD scholarships for both Home/EU and international students, alongside 123 government
 sponsored PGRs and 33 externally sponsored collaborative programmes including partnerships
 with the Environment Agency and the Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organisation.

 NTU established the ground-breaking University Alliance DTA in Applied Biosciences for Health
 and led roll-out of this multi-partner cohort-based national doctoral training partnership to Energy
 and Social Policy. It delivers a cross-disciplinary training programme to nearly 200 postgraduate
 researchers, of which NTU has hosted 18. A Marie Skłodowska-Curie PhD Fellowship
 programme, where NTU hosts eight fellows, has brought international researchers into the
 partnership.

                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 NTU is a long-standing partner in the AHRC M4C DTPship, where 8 Midlands universities train
 the next generation of arts and humanities researchers. NTU has secured 62 awards across
 M4C and its predecessor, M3C. The University is a full partner within the BBSRC DTProg led by
 the University of Nottingham.

 Doctoral researchers are encompassed within the remit of NTU’s Success for All Steering
 Group. Chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, this brings sector-leading data and focused action plans
 to bear on any characteristics that indicate that our students may not fulfil their academic
 potential.

 The Scholarship Projects for Undergraduate Research (SPUR) and associated departmental
 schemes offer bursaries for NTU undergraduate students to contribute to staff research projects.
 To date, 436 projects have been awarded bursaries worth more than £500,000 across 77
 subject areas.

 ‘Our commitment to working across boundaries …’

 NTU’s strategic focus on addressing key societal challenges necessitates interdisciplinary
 approaches, as represented by its five priority research areas outlined above. Within each area,
 NTU researchers from disparate disciplines collaborate within and beyond the institution. Each
 priority has senior academic leadership with responsibility for committing up to £120k pa.

 During 2020, NTU has selected one of these priority areas - Cultural Heritage - as its first
 Research Peak. The development of these priorities into peaks will serve to highlight both their
 current excellence and future potential. NTU has allocated an annual budget of £500k to
 enhance research in this initial peak, in particular to develop further international collaboration.

 The boundaries NTU crosses are not just disciplinary. The NTU Global team plays a key role,
 investing £691k in seed-corn funding for individual and institutional international collaborations
 since 2016. This has led to NTU’s partnership with Panjab University in India which has
 generated two GIAN and one Commonwealth Rutherford Awards. Through such initiatives,
 internationally co-authored papers have risen from 29.4% in 2014 to 58.8% in 2020.

 ‘Robust processes that enable discovery, drive innovation, and change the world …’

 An effective research strategy has to be underpinned by robust research policies and
 procedures. NTU is fully compliant with the relevant research-related concordats. These inform
 the University’s practice around research ethics and integrity, research environment, support
 and training for researchers, public engagement and knowledge exchange.

 NTU publishes an annual statement on research integrity, detailing initiatives to embed
 institutional culture around research integrity. NTU is committed to transparency regarding
 research misconduct; on rare occasions where such misconduct is substantiated, anonymised
 details of the misconduct and corrective measures appear in the annual statement. In 2018, a
 review of research integrity led to the establishment of the University Research Integrity
 Committee charged with providing institutional oversight.

 Publication Policy and Research Data Management Policy support researchers by maximising
 the impact of their research outputs through open access and open data. NTU’s Institutional
 Repository (IRep) enables the sharing of outputs internally and externally. NTU policies go
 beyond the REF open access policy, requiring full text deposit of datasets and book chapters, as
 well journal articles and conference proceedings with an ISSN. Both Open Access and Open
 Data have been supported through £318k of strategic investment.

 The next five years


                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 ‘We have defined, resourced, and promoted a compelling portfolio of world-class research and
 innovation. We have created new ways for collaborators to share in the spirit of creativity and
 curiosity that characterises our research, scholarship, and practice.’

 This statement refreshes the overarching ambition for the Valuing Ideas theme within NTU’s
 2020-2025 strategy, University, reimagined. The theme focuses on four topics; for each there is
 a major new approach that will build on progress since 2014.

 1. We will focus our attention on challenges that are as relevant to our stakeholders
 locally and regionally as they are of global concern, partnering with outstanding institutions that
 share our aspirations and recognise our contributions.

 NTU will support its strongest research and research leaders in areas of continuing international
 salience for policy and practice. These will be supported by investment that will enable proactive
 recruitment, support established and early career colleagues, and underpin enhanced
 partnerships with universities around the world.

 In terms of intellectual focus, in addition to Global Heritage, NTU will build on external funding
 into the MTIF and Smart Wireless Innovation Facility (SWIFt, a collaboration with Digital
 Catapult) and progress within its Health and Wellbeing and Medical Technologies and Advanced
 Materials research priority areas to develop the next generation of health care interventions.
 Academics in the Safety and Security of Citizens and Society priority area have been leading the
 Cabinet Office’s C-19 Foresight Group on the response to the pandemic. NTU will expand its
 research and practice to support frontline responders and local resilience fora in dealing with
 future emergencies. Colleagues in the Sustainable Futures area will be central to the
 contribution Universities for Nottingham will make to the achievement of local, regional and
 national commitments to net zero carbon emissions.

 2. We will transform our international reputation through shaping a research narrative based on
 excellence and impact that generates esteem, stimulates collaboration and establishes
 opportunities.

 NTU has some of the UK’s most adept academics in using social media to promote their
 research and its implications. Learning from this experience and expertise, NTU will create
 bespoke social media platforms that enable all of its researchers to disseminate their work.

 3. We will extend our collaboration with scholars, partners and other stakeholders through
 original deployment of new technology.

 Even before the impact of Covid-19, NTU was aware that the manner in which international
 research collaborations were pursued was becoming unsustainable. NTU is developing a ‘Virtual
 Institute of Advanced Studies’ to facilitate such collaborations, in part through its partnership with
 Microsoft.

 4. We will accelerate our performance in commercialisation and consultancy to share our
 insights in ways that benefit our partners, our society and our University.

 NTU will select a small number of areas of intellectual property for the application of a new
 model of external consultancy.


 3. People

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 NTU’s commitment to EDI is deep-rooted and led from the top. In 2014, the incoming VC
 created and chaired an EDI Steering Group to champion initiatives: an institution-wide campaign

                                                                                                 Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 promoting respect as a core value; staff networks promoting the perspectives of Women,
 Disability, LGBT+ and BAME; and the launch of a mandatory unconscious bias online training
 module. More recently, transgender awareness and white privilege training have taken place for
 key staff groups, including the University Executive Team.

 In April 2019, NTU secured Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award, one of the KPIs set by the
 Board of Governors. This recognition is in part based on a four-year action plan resourced with
 circa £750,000 of targeted financial investment. Components implemented included:

 • funding 15 Aurora places each year for female academics;
 • paying for an Athena Swan Champion in every academic school;
 • providing personal mentoring to female associate professors to accelerate their applications for
 promotion; and
 • creating ‘Women in Academia’ that supports all women as they pursue their research and
 career goals.

 NTU has a comprehensive schedule for Athena Swan accreditation for academic departments,
 with Psychology and Sports Science receiving their Bronze Awards in November 2019 and
 October 2020, respectively.

 NTU is a member of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions, holds Disability Confident Employer
 status, and has enrolled in Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter. In December 2020, it published
 its Race Equality Action Plan. This incorporates a VC Mentoring Scheme for associate professors
 who identify as BAME. NTU champions transparency: ethnicity pay gap data are published
 alongside annual gender pay gap reporting.

 NTU data illustrate that amongst senior roles, inclusive of academic roles, both women and
 BAME colleagues are underrepresented. NTU has set explicit targets to increase female
 representation within the professoriate and improve BAME representation within leadership
 positions.

 All colleagues are eligible to make flexible working requests under the Flexible Working (Right to
 Request) Policy. This policy is complemented by Parental Leave and Special Leave policies.
 NTU has a Support for Academic Returners scheme which provides individual awards of £5k to
 help academics re-establish their research after returning from caring responsibilities.

 NTU runs a biennial staff survey. The 2018 survey found that that NTU’s key strengths as an
 employer are: appraisals; a safe and secure working environment; supportive work colleagues;
 and high levels of staff satisfaction with their work and the quality of service they deliver to
 students and others. 91% of staff gave a positive response on questions related to equality of
 opportunity. NTU’s CROS (Careers in Research, Online Survey) 2019 results showed that over 94%
 of early-career research staff agreed the University is committed to equality and diversity.

 Appraisal Process

 These positive perceptions are underpinned by NTU’s appraisal system, where institutional
 ambitions are balanced with individual aspirations. Completion rates of appraisals are another
 institutional KPI, with 98.5% conducted in 2019.

 Appraisals have two components: the agreement of personal objectives; and the definition of
 support and development that will enable delivery. During this REF cycle, we have implemented
 three career pathways which mean every academic possesses the objectives best suited to their
 focus: Teaching and Practice; Teaching and Research; and Teaching and Scholarship.

 Consulted on with staff and agreed with NTU’s University and College Union branch, it was
 introduced fully in 2018/19. Academics on the Teaching and Research Pathway have significant
 responsibility for research and are given workload allowance for research. They develop their

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 appraisal objectives through working with ADRs and Research Centre Directors to produce an
 annual Individual Research Plan. This framework facilitates the setting of research objectives
 appropriate to both career stage and discipline. It underpins a financial reward system that
 recognises outstanding and exceptional contributions by academic colleagues each year.

 This approach to appraisal is the foundation of other important activities that promote and
 recognise research. These include School-led sabbatical schemes - 88 since 2014 - and the
 Vice-Chancellor’s Outstanding Researcher Awards (since 2015/16, 25 recipients have also been
 given small grants to accelerate their research.)

 This appraisal process has enabled: streamlining probation and progression from entry at
 lecturer level to top of senior lecturer scale; ensuring academic promotion is based on
 transparent performance criteria; and movement within professorial bands - and creation of
 Distinguished Professors - rooted in individual contributions.

 Thus, appraisal lies at the heart of our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion:
 progression, promotion, recognition and reward are based solely on merit.

 Support and Development for PGRs and Early Career Researchers

 NTU received the HR Excellence in Research Award in January 2013 and endorses the revised
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Adherence is managed through
 the Concordat Management Group, overseen by University Research Committee. In 2017 NTU
 introduced School Concordat Champions to embed this work at a local level. The most recent
 external peer review of the University’s policies and practices related to the Concordat praised
 the “considerable buy-in of the senior management and the Board of Governors” which in its
 view had “clearly impacted on the pace of change and the culture of research at NTU”.

 NTU has established a termly ECR Forum which encourages researchers to share their views
 and undertake personal and professional development This provides rolling induction for new
 researchers, an opportunity to update on the Valuing Ideas strategic theme, and a platform to
 raise issues. This forum includes training and information sessions such as: Communicating
 Research; Career Development; Understanding the REF; and Open Access and Responsible
 Use of Metrics.

 NTU has developed a bespoke “Winning Grant Funding” programme for early-career
 researchers. This trains ~30 early-career researchers in biennial cohorts by providing
 mentorship and masterclasses on proposal development, pathways to impact and development
 of external partnerships; 50% of attendees have gone on to secure significant or high-esteem
 grant funding.

 All researchers have access to a comprehensive suite of blended training and development
 mapped to the Researcher Development Framework. Attendance data show an annual average
 of 490 individual instances. The latest CROS data show that 72% of ECRs agree that the
 University encourages them to engage in personal and career development.

 The NTU Doctoral School (DS) is responsible for doctoral training and administration. All
 doctoral candidates are supervised by at least two supervisors to oversee research planning and
 progress, with 12 mandatory meetings each year. Doctoral researchers produce interim and
 annual monitoring reports to ensure timely progression. The University’s rate of full-time
 submission within four years was 78% in 2017/18.

 All doctoral researchers enrol on NTU Doctorate Plus. This comprises a comprehensive
 annual programme of workshops, training and events designed to support personal and
 professional development, complementing school and research centre provision. NTU records
 an annual average of 980 individual bookings and satisfaction rates scored 3.2% above the


                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 global sector benchmark in 2019. The DS organises an annual Doctoral Research Festival,
 which shows attendance regularly above 30% of the doctoral community.

 NTU has worked hard to ensure PGR representation on research-related committees at school
 and institutional levels. The DS hosts a regular forum to ensure open communication with the
 doctoral community. A Nottingham Trent Students Union (NTSU) sabbatical officer attends PGR
 induction and feedback events and PGR students are a key constituency in the NTU Student
 Voice campaign. NTSU has supported the election of PGR Student Representatives since
 September 2017 and co-delivers Student Representative training and development. Locally,
 PGR students are actively involved in organising seminar series and school research
 conferences.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Activity and Income

 NTU views research income generation as both a key indicator of peer-esteem and a vital
 method of generating research excellence and strong impact. During this REF period, research
 grant spend per annum has risen by 40% despite lockdown reducing income in 2019-20.

  Year                            Institutional Income           HESA data (million)
                                  (million)
  2019-20                         £330                           £7.0
  2018-19                         £313                           £7.4
  2017-18                         £290.3                         £7.2
  2016-17                         £271.8                         £6.7
  2015-16                         £258.5                         £6
  2014-15                         £225.4                         £5.9
  2013-14                         £213.2                         £5.0

 NTU’s investment in research development capacity, allied to a co-ordinated approach to the
 management of research support processes, procedures and policies, have supported NTU
 researchers in submitting more and better applications to external funders. In the academic year
 before these investments took full effect - 2016/17 - 395 applications totalled £38.5 million. Of
 these, 115 (29%) were successful, resulting in £5.7 million of new awards. In 2019/20, 477
 applications were submitted, totalling £94.5m. Of these, 126 (26.42%) were successful, resulting in
 £13.7 million of future research income.

 NTU has deployed QR income strategically through complementary processes:

 1. Institutional Research Themes: £1.8 million has been allocated across the five research
 priorities so interdisciplinary teams can develop responses to key challenges; and
 2. School Research Plans: £18.9m has been distributed to each school for allocation locally
 against agreed objectives;

 Both processes have included significant funding for pilot studies or early stage projects which
 have contributed to the development of more substantial, often multi-partner and multi-
 disciplinary, projects with associated external funding applications.

 Overall, in the REF period, over £25m of QR has been invested to develop research.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 In Spring 2019, NTU launched a research lifecycle Research Information Management


                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 System (Worktribe). This £1.14 million investment represented a step change in the
 management of research, supporting growth in research activity and impact and assisting
 compliance with external funders’ regulatory requirements. It is used to process, manage and
 report on all applications for external research income.

 £45 million has been invested in capital schemes which have transformed research capacity.

 At the Clifton campus, research facilities available to physical and life sciences have been
 enriched as part of wider schemes:

       £11m Interdisciplinary Science and Technology Engagement Centre (ISTEC), supported
        by a £5m contribution from HEFCE, to provide significant additional laboratory space;
       £23m dual-site MTIF supported by £9.7m from the D2N2 LEP; and
       £23m Engineering Building which houses laboratories, workshops and studios.

 There has been major investment in equipment, for example a cutting-edge
 dedicated Imaging Suite, featuring:
     Atomic force microscope (Dimension ICON AFM, purchased 2016 for £185k);
     Scanning electron microscope (Jeol FEG SEM JSM-7100F + EDX, purchased 2015 for
        £250k); and
     Transmission electron microscope (Jeol JEM 2010 TEM, replaced 2019 for £640k)

 On the City campus, research facilities have been expanded for a range of disciplines,
 including £2.3m for SoSS psychology research and £510k for ADBE to refurbish and re-equip
 laboratory space.

 At Brackenhurst, the School of Animal, Rural and Environmental Sciences has benefited
 from:
      £820k poultry nutrition unit;
      £280k glassshouse, growth rooms and container farm for vertical farming research;
      £230k integrated water energy food facility; and
      New research labs for environmental and geospatial research as part of a £12m teaching
        and research centre.




                                                                                                Page 9
