Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: University of Oxford

 1. Context and mission

 The University of Oxford is the world’s oldest English-speaking university undertaking research
 and innovation that spans all aspects of science, medicine, the social sciences and humanities,
 supported by internationally important research collections and underpinned by a distinctive
 collegiate structure. Our mission is the advancement of learning by teaching and research,
 and its dissemination by every means. Our goal is to make a difference at all scales, from the
 local to the global, through impacts in technology, health, policy, culture, learning and economy.

 The breadth of our research is reflected in our        Over 24,000 students including 6,800
 31 UOA submissions and provides us with                 research students
 opportunities to forge connections between             14,500 staff including 1,900 academics
 diverse disciplines. We celebrate and support           and 4,900 researchers
 equally all modes of research from the individual      External research income increased
 scholar to large international teams, and               from £478m in 2013/14 to £634m in
 researchers at all career stages. Our global            2019/20
 research outlook is reflected in the diversity of
                                                        107,000 outputs over the REF period
 our students and staff, and our many in-country
                                                        102 spin-out companies in 2014-20
 partnerships and overseas units around the
 world.

 Academic departments are grouped into four divisions: Medical Sciences, Mathematical,
 Physical and Life Sciences, Social Sciences, and Humanities, while Gardens, Libraries and
 Museums (GLAM) brings together research collections for scholarly enquiry and provides a front
 door for the public to the wealth of knowledge and research curated and generated at the
 University. Teaching is co-ordinated with 39 colleges and 6 permanent private halls.
 Postgraduate numbers have grown significantly and to accommodate this growth in 2019 we
 established Reuben College for graduates. Oxford University Press (OUP) is a department of
 the University and the largest university press in the world. OUP’s mission is to further the
 University's excellence in research, scholarship, and education.

 Researchers, groups and departments have a high degree of independence over all aspects of
 their research, with divisions and the central University tasked to provide co-ordination (training,
 support, career development, etc), resources (infrastructure, large facilities) and opportunities
 (research funds, cross-discipline working). Collectively they provide the best possible research
 environment and experience for all researchers. These arrangements ensure that our work is
 researcher-led, regardless of career stage, and that all researchers are stretched and supported
 in adventurous research of the highest quality and impact.

 The region

 The University plays a key role in Oxfordshire, which hosts one of Europe’s largest R&D
 concentrations, particularly in engineering, life sciences, medical instruments, publishing and
 tourism. Over 50% of employment is in higher skilled jobs, and small-to-medium enterprises
 (SMEs) dominate the economy. Clusters of national research facilities in the region include the
 Harwell Science Campus (Diamond Light Source, ISIS Neutron Source, etc.) and Culham (Joint
 European Torus fusion reactor and UK fusion programme). The vibrancy of the local innovation
 economy has increased opportunity for many but has also contributed to housing and other
 infrastructure pressures. To relieve strain on local housing, in 2018 we committed to build at
 least 1,000 new homes by 2023 for lower paid University and college staff.




                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 2. Strategy

 Our research strategy is (a) to promote and enable ambitious research of exceptional quality and
 (b) to change the world for the better through our research. We seek to attract and educate
 students and researchers of the highest international calibre and to provide a rich and flexible
 research environment that offers multiple pathways so that every researcher may achieve
 excellence and impact.

 Our strategy is articulated in the University Strategic Plan (2018-2023), developed through
 extensive consultation and then agreed by Congregation (our governing body comprising
 academic and professional staff). Delivery of the research and innovation strategy is the
 responsibility of the Pro-Vice-Chancellors for Research (PVC-R) and for Innovation (PVC-I)
 respectively. They are guided by Research & Innovation Committee comprising senior
 representatives from all constituent parts of the collegiate university and external members.
 Divisional and departmental research strategies are nested within the University Strategic Plan.

 2.1    Research strategy

 Taken from our 2018-2023 Strategic Plan, the priorities and progress over the REF period are
 described below.

 To invest in our physical research environment

 In 2013 we launched a capital masterplan to revitalise key parts of our research environment
 and seize emerging research opportunities through a prioritised pipeline of building projects. We
 have now completed a mixture of core discipline, multi-disciplinary and collections buildings,
 including those for research in physics (Beecroft Building, £50m), population health and drug
 discovery (Li Ka Shing Centre for Health Information and Discovery, which includes the Big Data
 Institute, £46m, and the Target Discovery Institute, £23m), a new school of government
 (Blavatnik School, £55m), and the redevelopment of the New Bodleian library to create the
 Weston Library (£84m).

 Recognizing that our building renewal must be        Emergency to opportunity: In 2017 our
 accelerated, in 2017 we raised £750m through a       biggest research building (23,500 m2,
 bond issue (and a further £250m in 2020), and        Zoology and Experimental Psychology)
 entered into a £4bn joint venture (JV) with Legal    closed due to asbestos exposure risk,
 & General (L&G). Bond funds are focused on           displacing 700 researchers overnight.
 building the academic environment while the L&G      Through an emergency £30m programme
 JV is focused on staff and student housing and       of purpose-designed modular laboratories,
 large-scale innovation facilities. Major capital     all experimental research was up and
 investments underway include the Medical-            running within 15 months. Permanent re-
 Physical sciences Dorothy Hodgkin Institute          housing will be in a purpose-built
 (£92m, 2021), the Institute for Developmental        interdisciplinary Life and Mind Building
 and Regenerative and Medicine (£32m, 2021),          (LaMB, £202M, 2024).
 and the Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities
 (£200m, 2025), which will also act as a hub for our major new programme in AI and Ethics.

 To increase the scale and scope of central funding for strategic research initiatives

 Major capital projects aside, we devolve finances to allow additional investments, typically in
 academic posts, to departmental level, often augmented by divisional/central funds on a
 competitive basis, informed by strategic fit. For example, the John Fell OUP Research Fund
 (JFF) allocates £6m pa of support for early career faculty and pump-primes new research
 initiatives. JFF also provides co-funding for external bids and every £1 committed leverages ~£7


                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of external research funding. Start-up support for senior academic appointments is provided by
 our Higher Studies Fund (~£1m pa) and a new (2019) Strategic Research Fund (SRF).

 The SRF was established to make transformative changes           Nightstar Therapeutics Ltd
 to our research capacity in targeted areas, funded               (NT) was a spin-off gene
 principally by hypothecating the financial gains of              therapy company developing
 innovation (licensing and our spin-out company share             treatments for rare inherited
 realisations). In spring 2020, the SRF was used to               retinal diseases that lead to
 underwrite the very earliest stages of our COVID-19              blindness. In 2017, NT floated
 vaccine research, before external funding was available,         on NASDAQ and was then sold
 and was critical in quickly advancing vaccine research and       to Biogen Inc. in 2019 for
 manufacturing for clinical trials. In the next REF period, the   USD877m. A part of the
 SRF aims to invest £5m–£10m pa, including Oxford Net             University’s equity was
 Zero that will integrate our expertise in climate, energy and    reinvested in our research via
 policy research to provide evidence for equitable policy         the SRF.
 and science-based interventions to address global
 warming.

 To diversify sources of research funding

 We have diversified and grown our research income. For example, UKRI and charity funded
 research have increased by 9% and 7% in absolute terms but reduced from 28% to 23% and
 29% to 24% in our portfolio (see §4.1). We have expanded our industrial research partnerships
 team that supports principal investigators, with the result that industry funded research has
 increased from £53mpa to £108mpa (12% to 17%). Philanthropic research funding has also
 been a growing part of our portfolio, including a £7m gift from Amazon Web Services for AI
 (2020) and £15m for COVID-19 research. In the next REF period, we will start to invest a £100m
 gift from INEOS in a new Centre for Antimicrobial Resistance Research.

 To expand strategic international research collaborations

 International research collaborations are used to achieve higher quality and greater reach for our
 research impact. In 2018 we opened the 20,000m2 Oxford-Suzhou Centre for Advanced
 Research (OSCAR) near Shanghai, housing 50 postdoctoral researchers, growing to >150 by
 2025. OSCAR is funded principally by the Suzhou Industrial Park but independently managed by
 Oxford academics to enable a greater regional focus for our research, for example, AI use in
 China’s healthcare system.

 To maximise the relevance and impact of our infectious disease research, we have long-term
 commitments to in-country partnerships, with 200 University researchers based in 10 overseas
 units that employ 2,500 local staff. Over the last 7 years, major developments include renewal of
 Wellcome-funded research partnerships in Vietnam (2015, £30m), Thailand (2015/20,
 £34m/£45m) and Kenya (2016, £45m) and a major new anti-microbial resistance activity in
 Vietnam (2020). Our overseas units have made significant research contributions, for example
 the elimination of multi-drug resistant falciparum malaria across large areas of SE Asia.

 2.2    Enabling and facilitating impact

 To broaden and invest in innovation activities, to foster an entrepreneurial environment, and to
 expand innovation districts

 Licensing and spin-out activity based on intellectual property from our research is led by the
 inventing researchers, supported in all facets of technology transfer by Oxford University
 Innovation Ltd (OUI). To enable other types of impact we have a central knowledge exchange



                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (KE) team for strategic initiatives but we also disperse KE activity and support staff into divisions
 and departments to be close to researchers. Examples (2014-2020) include:

       Formation of Oxford Sciences Innovation plc (OSI, 2015), a £600m early-stage
        investment fund to commercialise our research, and the largest single university focused
        innovation fund in the world. OSI sparked a step change increase in commercialisation
        activity: 8 spin-outs in 2013/14 increased to 19 in 2019/20; over the same period, OUI
        turnover increased from £14.5m to £31m and returns to the University increased from
        £6.7m to £17m.
       External investment in our spin-out portfolio in 2017/18 of £548m (a third of all UK spin-
        out investment that year) was surpassed in 2019/20 by investment of £855m in our spin-
        outs.
       OUI support for researchers to undertake external consultancy (advice, contracts, billing,
        indemnity insurance) increased from 400 contracts (2014) to >500 (2019/20).
       Construction of the Centre for Innovation and Enterprise (2,200 m2) on our Begbroke
        Science Park and the BioEscalator (1,500 m2) on our medical campus. The BioEscalator
        currently houses 13 companies and ~100 industrial researchers in the Novo Nordisk
        Research Centre, a significant inward investment by a leading European therapeutic
        company.
       Enterprising Oxford provides University-wide entrepreneurial support for students, staff,
        alumni, and the local community. Since 2015, EO has promoted 2,500 entrepreneurship
        events.
       The Oxford Foundry, opened in 2017 by Tim Cook, Apple CEO, provides space, training
        and support for student, staff, and alumni entrepreneurs. The Foundry has >3,000
        members and 19 student-led ventures have raised £8m of investment into enterprises
        now valued >£40m. The rapid success of the student-led Foundry speaks to how our
        entrepreneurial culture has broadened and the entrepreneurial community ever more
        inclusive.
       The first Creative Destruction Laboratory activity outside North America (2020), co-
        funded by Research England (£2.6m) with 25 AI ventures selected from 270 applicants
        across Europe.
       Our SE2020 social impact translational fund helped form our first social enterprise spin-
        out sOPHIa (2019) using our Multidimensional Poverty Index (Queens Anniversary Prize,
        2019) to fight global poverty.

 In next REF cycle we will develop mixed-use large-scale Innovation Districts through our JV with
 L&G, increase innovation rewards for departments, and further expand The Oxford Foundry.

 To improve the breadth and depth of public engagement

 Building on departmental strengths in public engagement with research (PER) we have
 appointed an Academic Champion for PER at University level (2015) and in each division,
 established a central PER team, and delivered new PER Leadership training courses. Other
 activities include:

       Our Museum of Natural History
        lectures are broadcast live in >60       Curiosity Carnival: Oxford’s European
        countries: a recent outreach event       Researchers’ Night (2017) was a city-wide
        had >59,000 live contributions from      programme across our museums, libraries,
        120,000 households.                      gardens, woods and the city where more than
                                                 42,000 people engaged with over 500
       Our Zooniverse platform is the
        world’s largest citizen-science          researchers. Visitor outcomes and impacts
                                                 evidenced in feedback included: enrichment
        research project, involving >1m
        people around the world who              and inspiration; increased understanding and
                                                 changed perceptions of research.
        enable research otherwise


                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
           impossible or impractical, and has led to new discoveries, datasets and publications.
          Trusted Source (2016) is a partnership with the National Trust delivering easily
           understood articles about history, culture and the natural environment. Co-written by
           academics and National Trust experts, the articles build upon our research in history,
           culture, and the natural environment.

 2.3       Community engagement and contributions to economy and society

 London Economics Ltd estimated that the total economic impact associated with the University’s
 research and KE activities in 2018/19 was £7.9b, of which £4.5b was generated by research and
 the associated productivity spill-overs to the economy, and £3.4b was associated with KE
 activity. Consequently, for each £1m of University research income, the resulting research and
 KE activity generated £10.3m of economic impact across the UK. The KE activity alone was
 estimated to support 27,600 full-time equivalent jobs in 2018/19.

 The University is the largest regional employer and the growth of our spin-outs plays an
 increasing role in local employment. We have a major role in tourism with >3.2m (2018) visitors
 to our gardens, libraries, and museums, including to the Ashmolean, the world’s oldest public
 museum.

 Significant engagement occurs through partnership with Oxford University Hospitals Foundation
 Trust (OUH) and Oxford Health Trust in which our staff hold key clinical leadership roles. We
 share an integrated Joint Research Office for aligned clinical research governance and
 operations. The breadth of our partnership with the NHS across all of medicine is exemplified by
 our two NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (£125m over 5 years 2017-22). Our partnership
 with the NHS allows us to deliver high-quality care underpinned by access to latest medical
 innovations to 3m local people, but also provides an efficient gateway through which we ca
 deliver benefits to all NHS patients.

 We are committed to our research findings and expertise being used to support policy-making
 that impacts economy and society. We formed The Oxford Policy Engagement Network (2018)
 to provide opportunities for researchers to advise government, train early career researchers
 (ECRs) in what policymakers do and how to be an effective advisor, and fund policy-related
 fellowships, which, for example, facilitate placements in government departments and advisory
 bodies.

 In the next REF cycle, the Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities (2025) will provide new
 venues for local engagement, including a 500-seat concert hall, 250-seat theatre, cafes and
 green public spaces. Alongside our new Innovation Districts, we will play a leading role in the
 Oxford-Cambridge Arc.

 2.4       Supporting the open research agenda

 To invest in digital tools and infrastructure to be a leader in open scholarship and to support
 open access

 We established the Oxford Research Archive (ORA) open access repository for our research
 publications and doctoral theses, with >3m research output downloads in 2018/19. Support,
 training and advocacy for open research is provided by the Bodleian Libraries where an Open
 Scholarship team has been created (2020), led by a new post of Head of Open Scholarship
 Support. OUP’s international reach provides us with further opportunities to advance open
 scholarship sustainably, in particular through its expertise in open access monographs.

 Reproducible Research Oxford (RROx) is a spoke of the UK Reproducibility Network. RROx is
 centrally funded but researcher-led and promotes how open scholarship can improve the quality,
 impact and speed of research. for example: (i) RROx’s Code Review Network independently

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 checks research code, helps debugging and teaches open source publishing; and (ii)
 ReproducibiliTea is an ECR-focused Journal Club for open science and reproducibility, started at
 Oxford and now involving 34 institutions (2019).

 We commissioned a major review (2019/20) that identified a five-year programme of strategic IT
 and other investments to make us a leader in researcher-led open scholarship, and its
 implementation will shape our open research priorities for the next REF period.

 2.5    Engaging with regional and national research priorities

 The PVC-R is a Director of the Oxfordshire Local Economic Partnership and we fund a joint full-
 time post at OxLEP to ensure we are engaged and supporting the region. Our academics sit on
 sub-groups for Innovation, Skills, Culture and Visitor Economy, Clean Growth, and others have
 been involved in the formulation of the OxLEP Local Industrial Strategy and the co-creation of
 investment opportunities with local business. For example, our researchers working with OxLEP
 secured Project LEO, a £40m innovative public-private partnership to develop smart local
 electricity grids.

 We have played a full and sometimes leading role in the creation and shaping of new national
 research institutes. We led the research and business case development for the “physical
 sciences into medicine” £103m Rosalind Franklin Institute (set up as a legal entity in 2018) and
 (with the Automotive Council) the £318m Faraday Battery Challenge and the Faraday Institution
 (2017), the Nucleic Acid Therapy Accelerator (2020); we co-led the Vaccine Manufacturing and
 Innovation Centre. These national initiatives are based at the nearby Harwell Science Campus,
 which also supports many other research and innovation interactions. We were founding
 partners in the Alan Turing Institute (2015) and the Sir Henry Royce Institute (2015); and the
 lead/host institution for a UK Quantum Technologies hub (2014, 2019). Our researchers have
 been actively involved in all these national institutes, providing interim leadership (e.g. National
 Quantum Computing Centre, Deputy Director, 2020) and ongoing scientific leadership (e.g.
 Faraday Institution, Chief Scientist, 2017-).

 2.6    Supporting interdisciplinarity and collaboration

 Through our colleges, interdisciplinarity is hard-wired into our structure, and the four divisions
 and GLAM have many programmes to bring researchers together through seminars, networks
 and other events. The Oxford Martin School (OMS), governed jointly by the four academic
 divisions, has forged a unique position in promoting interdisciplinary, solution-driven research
 and invests ~£2m pa into competitively bid research programmes. An example of an OMS
 research output is the Oxford Martin Principles for Climate-Conscious Investment, with BP plc
 commenting in 2020: “Our strategy now covers the three elements of the Oxford Martin
 Principles: we have committed to being a net zero company, we intend to become a net zero
 company in a profitable manner, and we will be measuring our progress at regular intervals.”

 TORCH (The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities) supports interdisciplinary networks
 and thematic programmes (e.g. Race and Resistance, and Climate Crisis Thinking) and
 international collaboration (e.g. The Oxford-Berlin Research Partnership with 4 Berlin-based
 universities). During 2018/19, TORCH hosted almost 400 events, with audiences of over 20,000
 people (reaching over 50,000 globally online in 2019-20). Since 2013, TORCH has supported
 400 researchers each year; 62 KE fellowships; over 50 seed-funded research networks and 10
 new research programmes.

 The JFF and our GCRF QR allocation fund AfOx – the Africa Oxford initiative – bringing together
 300 Oxford researchers working with 200 institutions across 30 African countries. AfOx offers
 travel grants (~25 pa) and Visiting Fellowships (10 pa), supports African researchers in Oxford,
 and runs summer schools and conferences. AfOx plays a critical role in delivering our £20m
 UKRI GCRF Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents Hub involving five departments

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and many African partners. In the COVID pandemic, this hub led an emergency coalition of the
 WHO, UNICEF and others to adapt and translate our evidence-based parenting resources into
 114 languages and made them open source. Since April 2020, 29 governments have been using
 our resources in their national COVID responses.

 2.7    Research integrity

 Training in research integrity was made compulsory for all researchers in 2020, bringing the
 entire University in line with long-established best-practice in many departments e.g. clinical
 subjects. All integrity and ethics policies, guidelines and training comply with or exceed the UK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity. We publish information about cases of research
 misconduct and have procedures to support all researchers with concerns over poor practice or
 misconduct. Evolution and implementation of the research integrity agenda is overseen by the
 Research & Innovation Committee and a network of central and department-led research ethics
 committees. Research Services ensures that policies are implemented through all stages of
 research, from idea to final data curation, and promotes responsible innovation.

 We operate a Committee to Review Donations and Research Funding to assess the provenance
 and reputational issues of donors and research funders. To promote independence and avoid
 conflicts of interests, the committee comprises external members, one of whom is the Chair, and
 others drawn from across University Congregation; it excludes senior staff such as the VC and
 PVCs. We publish annual statistics on the committee’s decisions.


 3. People

 We aim to attract, recruit and retain the highest calibre staff, working towards an increasingly
 diverse staff profile, and supporting staff in their personal and professional development. Over
 80% of research staff are externally funded, and on fixed term or, increasingly, open-ended
 contracts. Reflecting our global outlook, 45% of teaching and research and 50% of research staff
 are non-UK nationals.

 3.1    Staffing strategy and staff development

 The two substantive academic posts are Associate and Full Professor, typically with a linked
 college fellowship, often with teaching or other responsibilities, termed a ‘joint appointment’.
 Progression and promotion occur through the award of full professor title (Recognition of
 Distinction exercise, annual) and/or professorial merit pay (based on contributions to research,
 teaching, citizenship, and leadership). External references and peer assessment are integral to
 these processes. Staff in other posts can also be awarded Associate Professor title where
 comparable contributions are made. Statutory Professors are a further category and tend to be
 named/endowed positions appointed through an international gathered field competition. Finally,
 non-joint appointment research Professorships are for leadership of large externally-funded
 research programmes/centres, or in cases of a high clinical case-load, and have risen 20% over
 the REF period.

 Associate Professors are appointed initially for five years with reduced teaching and
 administration, and assigned an academic mentor. There are interim and final academic reviews
 against pre-agreed criteria. After the initial period, appointment is then usually made until
 retirement with regular one-to-one reviews undertaken by the Head of Department. Academic
 staff are eligible for sabbatical research leave (one term’s leave for every six of service). In 2020
 we introduced an entrepreneurial leave scheme for staff to devote time to supporting the early,
 critical stages of a spin-out company.

 Nearly 50 staff support researcher professional development, much of it through the Centre for
 Teaching and Learning (CTL) and a People and Organisational Development Unit (POD). The

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 latter provides training for academic/research staff with a focus on developing management and
 leadership skills, and preparing staff to manage projects, people, and workload. Extensive
 induction materials are available to every researcher. Some induction units are compulsory (e.g.
 data security, health and safety), and complement departmental-level induction programmes.

 A biennial, institution-wide staff survey critically informs our people strategy. For example,
 feedback from the most recent survey (2018) was used to tailor our personal development
 review (PDR) for academics, researchers and support staff; it also led to the appointment of
 Divisional Advocates for Researcher Development to oversee local implementation of
 researcher PDRs and their wider development. Past surveys also encouraged further
 liberalisation of working arrangements, and over 70% of respondents (2018) report use of
 flexible working.

 In 2014 we introduced a ‘Returning Carers Fund’ providing grants to support staff who have had
 a break for caring responsibilities to re-establish their research. The fund has awarded >250
 researcher support packages. In 2020, we created a sister ‘COVID Rebuilding Research
 Momentum Fund’ for those most adversely affected by the pandemic, making 116 awards to
 ECRs for emergency childcare, improving the home working environment, and training. We run
 five University nurseries providing access to affordable, high-quality early years care for the
 children of staff and students (1:31 places per staff versus a Russell Group average of 1:61) and
 a generous maternity/shared parental leave package that is a ‘Day 1 benefit’ with no minimum
 qualifying period – an important resource for fixed-term contract researchers.

 3.2    Early Career Researchers

 To enhance the opportunities and support for early-career researchers

 We created the post of Academic Advocate for Research Staff Development (2018) along with
 Advocates in each of the four academic divisions to provide greater focus on needs and support
 of fixed-term contract researchers. We have strengthened and funded our ECR representative
 group, the ‘Oxford Research Staff Society’, and given research staff a greater voice in decision-
 making across the University, up to and including at University Council. We established (2020) a
 new Research Staff Hub with 5 FTE staff to co-ordinate ECR support best-practice, to provide
 bespoke space for career and professional development, to train new principal investigators in
 researcher management, to enhance mental health and wellbeing support, and to build a
 stronger researcher community. One example of Hub activity is building researcher business
 awareness through consultancy work, in multi-disciplinary teams, for local organisations.

 The colleges offer highly competitive research fellowships, primarily for ECRs, and college-
 based researchers represent ~9% of our REF2021 submission. Over the next REF cycle we will
 grow college affiliations for University researchers, extend alumni benefits to research staff,
 extend the Hub to our medical campus, and challenge and evolve our research culture to
 recognise and support all contributions to research.

 3.3    Research Students

 Research students are critical to the vitality of our research environment and numbers have
 increased 13% (2014-19), with the largest increase (18%) in STEM subjects. Research students
 are members of a department, and of a college that provides a close-knit, multi-disciplinary
 academic community. To accommodate this research student number growth, in 2019 we
 established Reuben College as a new graduate college, admitting 100 students in 2021 to reach
 a steady-state of 600. We offer 1,000 competitively awarded graduate scholarships annually and
 nearly 60% of research students are fully funded. We aim to support students to timely
 completion of their doctorates and significant student hardship funds are available for
 unforeseen difficulties.


                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research students have departmental supervisors, often a co-supervisor, a separate welfare
 supervisor, and a pastoral supervisor in their college; variations to these arrangements – for
 example in Centres for Doctoral Training – are readily accommodated. Termly progress reports
 from students and supervisor(s) are independently reviewed by departments and colleges.
 Department Directors of Graduate Studies follow research student progress, in parallel with
 college pastoral supervisors, providing a well-resourced, personalised and responsive
 framework running alongside the supervisor relationship. Training is usually departmental and
 students encouraged to mix mandated “core” training with free selection from across the
 University.

 Student welfare and support services are extensive and include disability advice and counselling
 (including remote counselling) with close co-ordination and complementarity services between
 the University and colleges. In 2019, we launched a Mental Health and Student Wellbeing
 Strategy, and set up a Sexual Harassment and Violence Support Service, which has received
 two national awards for excellence. The University’s Careers Service provides advice,
 professional training and support services for research students, including workshops on
 graduate internships, start-ups and an annual Careers Conference for Researchers.

 In 2019 we launched UNIQ+ to encourage progression to research degrees from under-
 represented groups. The programme involves a 7-week summer paid research internship with
 accommodation provided. We expanded the programme in 2020 to 100 participants, and will
 increase further to 200. We have piloted (2020) socio-economic contextual data in admissions to
 five doctoral training programmes. We have created a Black Academic Futures programme
 (2020) for 10 scholarships for Black UK research students, alongside additional targeted
 scholarships for under-represented groups in Humanities and Law.

 Over the REF cycle we will increase research student numbers by 1,500 and graduate
 scholarships at least proportionately, increase graduate diversity, grow significantly the Black
 Academic Futures programme, and strengthen mental health and wellbeing support.

 3.4       Equality, diversity and inclusion

 We are committed to a working, learning and social environment that promotes equality, values
 diversity and in which the rights and dignity of everyone are respected. We take opportunities to
 advance equality whenever we can. Over the REF period we have:

          Increased the proportion of women in senior roles from 34% to 43%
          Received the Race Equality Charter, Bronze (2018)
          Moved from 244 (2015) to 76 (2019) in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index
          Renewed our HR Excellence in Research accreditation (2020)
          Adopted the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) for University-wide
           recruitment and promotion (2018)
          Increased from 6 Silver and 20 Bronze Athena SWAN awards to 18 Silver and 15
           Bronze, targeting at least 50% of departments to be Gold or Silver by the end of 2021

 In the future, we will act on the findings of our Race Equality Taskforce, reporting in September
 2021, which has been convened to engage, listen, share ideas and drive change that will
 address the under-representation of racial minorities, especially at the most senior levels, within
 the University.

 We continue to work to eliminate any gender pay gap, and our Gender Pay Gap Report (2019)
 stated:

          Although lower than the UK median, the median pay gap has remained at 13.7%
          The mean gender pay gap has decreased from 25% to 20% and we have an action plan
           for further progress
          We have eliminated any median bonus pay gap

                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
          A greater proportion of women are in receipt of bonus payments than men

 For our REF submission, we appointed cross-Panel observers to ensure consistency in eligibility
 decisions across UoAs and our interim Equality Impact Assessment showed the overall
 proportion of Cat A submitted female staff increased from 30% (2014) to 35%. Our Code of
 Practice encouraged output selection to be anonymised and UoAs were required to analyse and
 address any bias in output scoring and selection. For number of outputs per researcher selected
 for submission, there was no statistically significant evidence for gender bias. A full analysis by
 other protected characteristics was hampered by low declaration rates and absolute numbers.




 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1       Supporting research income generation

 Research income increased by 32%,
 from £478m (2013/14) to £634m
 (2019/20, the highest in the UK) and
 sources of funding diversified. UKRI
 and UK charities remain our largest
 income sources but most growth was
 in industrial, UK government
 department and international income.

 Over 400 FTE professional services
 staff are engaged in research support,
 sharing best-practice through our
 Research & Innovation Support
 Network. Support for researchers
 seeking funding is delivered through
 divisional facing teams that include
 industrial partnership specialists,
 including a number of joint funded
 posts, including with the NHS, the                  Research income over the REF cycle
 Satellite Applications Catapult, and Novo Nordisk. Central Research Services (7,300 research
 contracts in 2019/20) provides support for more specialist or complex areas, such as clinical
 trials or overseas partnerships. Philanthropic funding makes an increasing contribution to our
 research, which is stewarded by the Development Office in close collaboration with researchers.
 Donations are targeted to support academic posts, new research programmes, research student
 scholarships, and new infrastructure (§2).

 4.2       Infrastructure and facilities to support research and impact

 GLAM contains 21m objects, specimens and printed items curated by specialist staff. Within
 GLAM, the Bodleian Libraries is a national repository and the UK’s largest university library
 system comprising the Bodleian Library and 27 subject libraries, holding more than 13m printed
 items, 80,000 e-journals and outstanding special collections including rare manuscripts. The
 Bodleian provides extensive support and training for researchers to access resources efficiently.
 The £84m transformation of the Weston Library (2015) provides a new home for the Bodleian’s
 special collections and extends physical public access to the Libraries’ treasures. Many of the
 colleges have extensive libraries, often with unique resources.

 TORCH supports research and engagement with its global reach across digital platforms. With
 134k visitors to the website each year; over 35k followers on social media; and over half a
 million views on YouTube and the podcast platform during the REF period.

                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 There are many large multi-user research facilities hosted and locally managed by experts in the
 academic divisions, for example large centres for microscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance
 that serve and are sustained by a vibrant UK academic user base. Many of these and other
 Small Research Facilities (SRFs) are bookable over the web, and/or access is triaged by
 technical experts to ensure efficient use of instrument time. Unusually, we also operate a Clinical
 BioManufacturing Facility (CBF) that serves global research groups with novel biotech products
 for phase I/II clinical trials. In the REF period, trial vaccines have been produced for prostate
 cancer, malaria, MERS, Zika and COVID-19.

 Research IT infrastructure is overseen by a Research IT Board, and has instigated, for example,
 roll-out to departments of electronic laboratory notebooks (2018) and the upgrade of the Oxford
 Research Archive to support better our open scholarship initiatives. High performance
 computing (both parallel and high-throughput configuration, CPU & GPU options, 2PB storage)
 is provided by our Advanced Research Computing (ARC) facility that is free to all researchers,
 along with software and expert support and training. ARC also hosts departmental
 supercomputers in an appropriate environment and leads the Joint Academic Data science
 Endeavour Tier (JANET) 2 high-performance computing facility, uniquely designed for machine
 learning and data science applications.

 4.3    Equality and diversity

 The profile of our research funding portfolio by gender of principal investigator is reviewed
 periodically at Research & Innovation Committee. For example, the proportion of research
 funding applications that were submitted by females has increased from 31.9% in 2016/17 to
 33.4% in 2019/20, but for lower values than male counterparts. To deepen our understanding of
 these trends and their reasons, and the differences between disciplines, gender and protected
 characteristics, in 2020 we commissioned a major new project that will report in 2021 on the
 underlying factors influencing how external research funds are sought.




                                                                                            Page 11
