Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 1. Context and mission
 The University of Wolverhampton (hereafter UoW) is an anchor institution for, and of, the Black
 Country and the wider West Midlands. We were founded in 1827 as a mechanics’ institute to
 educate the local workforce, and were granted University status in 1992. We are proud to call
 ourselves the ‘University of Opportunity’ with priorities driven and influenced by our location in
 the heart of one of the most economically and socially deprived regions in the UK. The Black
 Country has the lowest proportion of jobs relative to the working age population (a density of
 0.69 compared to a national average of 0.83) and the second highest proportion of the
 population that are unemployed (6.8% versus a national average of 4.6%). Consequently, our
 mission is to ‘maximise opportunity through generating knowledge, innovation and enterprise’.

 UoW has 18,875 students, 965 academic and 1,565 non-academic staff working across 18
 schools organised into 3 Faculties (Faculty of Science and Engineering; Faculty of Education,
 Health and Wellbeing; and Faculty of Arts, Business and Social Sciences). Research underpins
 our Strategic Plan, which focused in the assessment period on supporting learning of students,
 transforming lives and impacting research beneficiaries and fostering global knowledge
 exchange and collaborations. We have a minority of academic staff on research-only contracts
 (34 staff), and circa 40% of staff on Teaching and Research Contracts had significant
 responsibility for research (average % during assessment period).

 Research is organised in two types of units. Research Institutes are self-funding, cross-faculty,
 interdisciplinary units with a critical mass of staff and research students. Research Centres sit
 within faculties, are typically smaller in size and bring together researchers in cognate subject
 areas, typically aligned to a Unit of Assessment (UoA). We have three Research Institutes and
 15 Research Centres that span all main REF panels, but with a greater prevalence of subjects
 aligned to panels C and D. This builds on our historic research strengths in library and
 information management, modern languages and linguistics, history as well as more recent
 investments to strengthen research in health and education. New to REF2021 are submissions
 in Psychology, Computing, Social Work & Social Policy, and Performing Arts and Film Studies,
 supported by internal research investments.


 2. Strategy

 UoW’s Research Strategy 2012-16 focused on 4 main areas: 1) Developing research staff (by
 providing structured career paths, developing staff at all stages of research careers), 2)
 Improving the quality of research and impact (through mentoring, peer review processes,
 strengthening of collaborations) and 3) Supporting and growing our research student community
 (through the setting up of a Doctoral College DC), 4) Enhancing research governance and
 research integrity (through the University’s Research Policy Unit RPU). Evidence of the success
 of the strategy was already seen in REF2014 where we increased the number of UoAs (+2) and
 staff submitted (+30), and increased the proportion of world-leading and internationally excellent
 research. This trajectory is also evident in our REF2021 submission where we submit 4 new
 UoAs, and have grown the number of staff submitted by 70%.

 In 2016, UoW developed a new strategic plan focusing on 3 pillars: 1) Students First, 2) Skills
 and Knowledge for Economic and Social Transformation and 3) Significant Influence and
 Impact. Research underpinned the 3 pillars. In 2019, we reviewed and refreshed our research
 strategy to focus on three priorities for the next 5 years. The first priority, Addressing Societal
 Challenges through Research, seeks to align research and impact in our institutes and centres
 with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and/or Industrial Strategy challenges, promote
 inter-disciplinary research and sustainable partnerships in research. Vibrant Research
 Communities is our second priority with a focus on development of staff and research students,
 equitable partnerships and infrastructure to support research. The third priority, Research-
 inspired Learning, focuses on embedding research and impact across all learning activities and

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 continuously developing a research culture that promotes rigour, integrity and responsible
 research. The delivery of our research strategy is supported by an institutional Research
 Investment Fund (RIF), with a GBP6 million investment in each three-year round, and
 institutional early career development schemes. RIF2 (2014-2017) focused on developing our
 own staff and students by funding 25 PhD studentships, 16 sabbaticals and/or enhanced
 research time, and over 10 research leadership appointments. RIF3 (2017-2020) focused on
 strategic investments in new areas of research (UoAs 11 and 20), growing existing areas of
 excellence (UoAs 3, 26, and 34), and supporting subject-related pedagogic research through the
 creation of an Education Observatory (UoA23). RIF4 (2020-2023) will focus on institutional
 research infrastructure and new areas of research, including interdisciplinary research to
 address societal challenges.

 UoW’s motto is ‘Innovation and Opportunity’ and impact underpins all three strategic research
 priorities. Our 2019 Impact Strategy brought together and aligned hitherto parallel impact
 strategies for research, teaching, knowledge exchange, business and community engagement in
 order to strategically exploit synergies. The objectives include: i) building awareness of impact;
 ii) developing participation in impact-related activities by academic and professional staff; iii)
 continuous learning, recognition and embedding of best practice on impact; iv) assessment of
 impact; and v) influence policy and practice. 3 Impact Officers in the central Research Hub, each
 aligned to a set of Centres and Institutes, support this work directly, along with business
 development staff in the External Engagement Directorate and faculties. We created a new
 promotion pathway to recognise applied research, and impact is included in the criteria for
 workload allocation.

 UoW has three broad impact audiences: 1) learners at all levels, in recognition that education,
 training and re-usable learning resources are major pathways to impact; 2) regional public,
 voluntary and private sector organisations, reflecting our mission to use research to create
 opportunities and improve the lives of people in our locality; 3) policy-making and policy-
 influencing institutions to promote longer-term systemic change. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 is a cross-cutting theme, and submitted Impact Case Studies feature impacts related to gender
 (UoAs17,27,28,34), people with disabilities (UoAs 4,11,23,26,32), ethnic minorities
 (UoA3,25,33), LGBTQ+ (UoA33), and other vulnerable groups including children (UoAs
 12,20,24). Our wider contributions to economy and society are facilitated through place-based
 investments and leadership, recognised through the inclusion of Wolverhampton in the
 UNESCO Global Network of Learning Cities; the award of a UNESCO chair, and placing 10th in
 HEPI’s English Social Mobility Index.

 Three Research Institutes are the linchpin for developing inter-disciplinary research. The
 Research Institute for Healthcare Science (RIHS) brings together researchers in oncology,
 chronic diseases, microbiology and infection, drug development and delivery, global health and
 epidemiology, mental health, and innovations in patient care and pharmacy practice to address
 global health challenges. Of strategic importance is our long-standing partnership with the Royal
 Wolverhampton NHS Trust through which we created 7 joint professorial appointments, co-
 funded post-docs and PhD students, and conducted collaborative projects. In 2018 we signed an
 MOU with the West Midlands Ambulance Service and joint research is developing beyond
 healthcare projects to encompass cyber-security, workforce planning and transport modelling.
 The Research Institute in Information and Language Processing (RIILP) brings together
 researchers from mathematics, computing and linguistics that are renowned internationally for
 their inter-disciplinary work in statistical cybermetrics and computational linguistics. Strategic
 collaborations include work with the US Board of Medical Examiners on devising tests for
 medical professionals; and JISC and the United Nations on research data evaluation. In 2017,
 the Institute of Community Research and Development was founded, bringing together
 researchers in social policy, criminology, psychology, public health, and deaf studies to address
 social challenges in the Black Country and wider West Midlands region. Strategic collaborations
 include those with local councils, the West Midlands Combined Authority, the WM Police and
 Crime Commissioners Office, and local and national NGOs.


                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The promotion of large-scale collaborative projects formed the second strand to promoting inter-
 disciplinarity. We have strategically targeted Horizon 2020 (see section 4) to build and/or
 strengthen international research collaborations addressing societal challenges. Successes
 included projects on transport modelling (UoA13), designing for people with dementia (UoA32),
 and the democratic role of socially engaged art in Europe (UoA32). To pump-prime such
 projects, we created an International Research and Innovation Scheme (IRIS) funded from RIF3,
 which supports a research team (including early career staff) to join an existing H2020 project.
 We used a GBP180,000 donation from our Chancellor to create 18 early-career fellowships that
 have an inter-disciplinary dimension.
 Finally, Research Centres are supported in developing inter-disciplinary research through
 shared infrastructure, such as faculty research committees, sandpits or conferences and
 seminar series published in the University Research Almanac. Examples of successful inter-
 disciplinary collaborations include the AHRC-funded project ‘On behalf of the people: Work,
 Community and Class in the British Coal Industry 1947-1994’ (UoA28 and 17) and work between
 psychology, health and sports science on emotional regulation and rehabilitation from non-
 communicable diseases through exercise.

 As signatories to the UK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA signed 2020) and as members of the UK’s Reproducibility
 Network, we strive to continuously enhance our practices and processes to promote responsible
 research. Research integrity is an underlying principle of UoW’s Research Strategy. To that end,
 we have in place a comprehensive suite of institutional policies and procedures to support
 research integrity and open research including a Code of Good Research Practice, Responsible
 Use of Research Indicators (Metrics) Policy, an Ethics Handbook, Academic Authorship Policy,
 Procedures for Dealing with Allegations of Misconduct in Research, and Research Data
 Management Policy (including open data). A Research Integrity Manager in the RPU supports
 the development and implementation of responsible research. Each Faculty maintains its own
 Ethics Committee, reporting to the University Ethics Committee. The University Ethics
 Committee regularly reviews existing policies and develops new ones in line with sector best
 practice and external reference points such as the UK’s Research Integrity Concordat and the
 European Code of Conduct for Research Integrity. Training on research integrity and
 responsible research is provided through the Staff Development Programme, the Postgraduate
 Researchers’ Development Programme (for research students), and forms part of the Early
 Career Researchers Development Programme. Training is available face-to-face, online and
 supported with materials through UoW’s virtual learning platform CANVAS. Our 2018 Annual
 Research Conference was themed ‘Responsible Research’ to share good practice on research
 integrity in our research community and with our partners. Thelwall (UoA34) was a contributor to
 The Metric Tide report and serves on the UK Forum for Responsible Research Metrics.

 Since 2011, we used the institutional repository WIRE to make research outputs openly
 accessible within 3 months of acceptance via the green Open Access (OA) Route. We actively
 encourage researchers to make research data and software OA, and we plan to invest in the
 JISC Open Research Hub to better support research data management policy and open
 research data. Work on OA is supported by the library’s scholarly communications team (3
 staff), and the University Librarian sits on the University Research Committee and the REF
 Strategy Panel to provide specialist advice on all OA matters.

 3. People
                                        Our staff community
 In recognition of our achievement in promoting staff at all levels, we hold the HR Excellence in
 Research Award since 2012. Progress against the action plan is monitored, and new initiatives
 launched, by the Researcher Development Sub-Committee of the University Research
 Committee, which includes a balance of early, mid-career, experienced staff on different
 contracts, HR, RPU and Career Services. UoW is signatory to the revised (2019) Researcher
 Development Concordat, and we have a transparent and merit-based recruitment process.
 Since 2019, shortlisting is anonymous and panels are gender and ethnically diverse. Between


                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 January 2019 and March 2020, the period for which we have the latest data, 29% of recruited
 staff were aged 18-29; 41% 30-44; 26% 45-59, and 4% over 60.

 In 2017/18, we introduced the Wolverhampton Academic Framework to enable staff whose
 primary employment function is to undertake teaching and research to position themselves
 within a career pathway that best matches their career aspirations. Academic staff were invited
 to identify themselves with one of two role profiles and job descriptions: 1) Teaching and
 Research (significant responsibility for research, SRR) and 2) Teaching, Scholarship and
 Professional Practice (TSPP). Staff on the Teaching and Research role profile, and staff on
 research-only contracts, can seek promotion through the internal conferment process to Reader/
 Associate Professor and Professor via research or a new knowledge exchange route (KE), in
 recognition of excellence in research and impact. Staff on TSPP profiles can seek promotion to
 Associate Professor and Professor through the new Learning and Teaching route. Since its
 implementation, 10 staff were promoted via the new Learning and Teaching route (5 Professors,
 5 Associate Professors, 8F/2M, 10 White), and 5 through the new KE route (1 Professor, 4
 Associate Professors, 2F/3M, 3 Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME)/ 2 White). In the
 assessment period, 17 staff were promoted to Professor (6F/11M; 5 BAME/ 12 White), and 23 to
 Reader (11F/12M; 5 BAME/18 White) through the research route. Staff with SRR typically have
 between 20-50% of their time allocated to research, or more where they are engaged in
 externally funded projects. All academic staff contribute to teaching. In line with our
 commitments to DORA and our Policy on the Responsible Use of Research Indicators,
 assessments for promotion and research evaluations include a range of criteria including internal
 citizenship and service, a narrative case for support and a development plan, and we rely on
 peer review and not journal-based metrics to assess quality of research. In 2019, UoW
 introduced a confidential process for voluntary declarations of individual circumstances, which
 are taken into account in promotion decisions.

 Career development of all staff with SRR, including research-only, part-time and fixed-term
 contract staff, is supported through a number of institutional policies and processes:
     A research-leave (sabbaticals) policy, for up to one semester available to all staff after 3
        years of service
     An institution-wide mentoring scheme, supplemented by local mentoring arrangements in
        centres and institutes
     Keeping-in-touch days for staff on parental and other leave
     Return from career break or leave processes involving dedicated mentoring support,
        career and research plans, phased returns and workload adjustments as needed
     An annual appraisal scheme with dedicated input on research development (where the
        line manager does not have SRR) and annual development plans
     General and research-specific staff development and online resources through the virtual
        learning environment CANVAS (312 staff, including honorary and professional service
        staff, subscribed)
     RIF2 dedicated to ‘growing our own staff’ (section 1)
     Recognition for research achievement via an annual Vice Chancellor’s Award for
        Research Excellence, open to individuals and teams from academic departments and
        professional services
     a Staff Wellbeing Hub which provides comprehensive occupational and mental health
        support

 UoW has support mechanisms for staff at different stages of their career and/or under-
 represented. Since 2006, we run an Early Research Award Scheme (ERAS), which annually
 awards up to 10 grants of up to GBP5,000 alongside a tailored mentoring and action learning
 programme to facilitate research career development. We use a wider definition of Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs) compared to the REF definition for ERAS eligibility, to support staff that
 had career breaks or who transit from TSPP to research, as is common in our practice-based
 subjects. 67 ERAS Fellows (37M/30F; 22 BAME/45 White) were awarded in the assessment
 period. Of the ERAS fellows since 2006, 18 received internal promotions and others secured


                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 promotions elsewhere including at Aston, Bristol, Leicester and Surrey. In 2019, we launched
 the Lord Paul Fellowship (LPF) programme, to support ECRs in leading an inter-disciplinary
 research project and team, we awarded 6 of the total 18 Fellowships in the REF period.

 ERAS and LPF run alongside an ECR Development Programme open to all early stage career
 staff which annually provides 30 workshops and drop-in sessions to support ECRs with the
 preparation, delivery and dissemination of research. The content of the programme is aligned
 with the VITAE researcher development framework (and staff and research students have
 access to the Vitae RDF Planner). 34 staff (in addition to the ERAS and LPF fellows) have
 attended the workshops and feedback has been used to refine the workshop content and
 delivery.

 An Experienced Researchers’ Development Programme offers the opportunity to grow and
 enhance staff research profiles and prepare for promotion. The programme focuses on: i)
 developing skills as research supervisors, research degree examiners and research degree
 chairs; ii) research impact, including influencing policy, working with the media, using social
 media and Intellectual Property Rights; and iii) developing leadership skills. 121 staff have
 attended the events.

 Since 2017, we run an annual Grants Academy Programme focusing on skills development for
 research funding (bidding, project management and understanding the funding landscape). In
 collaboration with UoW’s Brussels Office (section 4), half of the programme takes place in
 Brussels and includes visits and networking events with European-based funding organisations.
 We also invested in support to tackle the under-representation of women and BAME staff in
 senior research positions through Leadership programmes for historically excluded groups. We
 sponsor women to attend the Leadership Foundation’s Aurora programme and over the last 5
 years UoW has funded up to 7 women annually to attend the programme. The BME Steps to
 Leadership programme was delivered internally in collaboration with consultants from the Black
 Leadership Initiative, and we won the Guardian Higher Education Award for Equality and
 Diversity in 2017 for this initiative.

 We use PIRLS (Principal Investigators and Research Leaders Survey) and CROS (Careers in
 Research Online Survey) to benchmark performance in relation to research staff development
 and to inform interventions. For example, PIRLS 2015 and 2017 results showed that research
 leaders were becoming more confident at managing other staff but needed more support
 themselves. Consequently, we provided a further 150 sessions of the ‘Managers Toolkit’,
 created an online mentoring platform to match mentees with mentors, and put in place the above
 development programme for research leaders.

                      Our Postgraduate Research Student (PGR) Community

 In 2014, we set up the Doctoral College (DC) to enhance the PGR experience, encourage a
 vibrant research student community, and provide comprehensive and holistic development
 opportunities for PGRs. All PGRs, including MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorate Students,
 are members of the DC. The DC is headed by a Director, supported by an Associate Professor
 in Learning and Teaching and a research administrator. The DC works in collaboration with
 other corporate services, including Careers and Employability, the Library (both have dedicated
 PGR Advisors), the Students’ Union and Registry to offer services to PGRs. These include:
      The PGR Development Programme provides face-to-face and online workshops. It is
         mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and PGRs have full access to
         the Vitae Researcher Development planner that supports Annual Progress Review.
      Start Right workshops targeted at support and development in the early stages of
         research.
      Writing-up and Accessing Professions supports doctoral completion and transition to the
         world of work, and Prepare-to-Teach sessions.
      Annual PGR Employability Week, includes job fairs, workshops on preparing applications
         and mock interviews.

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       DC Social Events encourage PGRs from different disciplines to meet, get to know each
        other and seek informal advice.
     Annual Researchers’ Week, includes 2 days annual research conference, public lectures
        and themed research support session. We award 8 prizes for research posters (in
        different categories) and 3 photograph competition prizes where PGR students enter a
        photograph that depicts their doctoral research journey.
 The above events, in addition to those organised by the research centres and institutes, are
 captured annually in a Research Almanac, which is distributed in hard and soft copy to all PGRs,
 PGR applicants and research staff. In a typical year, we feature over 250 events.

 The DC also develops policies and processes to support PGRs via the DC Advisory Board, a
 sub-committee of URC. PGR admission, progression and completion is monitored through the
 Research Award Sub-committee, also reporting to URC. All PGRs are supervised by a team of
 researchers who are often chosen for their different supervisory expertise and sets of research
 skills in order to optimise support for PGR. Mandatory training is required to act as a research
 supervisor, research degree examiner, Chair of research degree examinations, as is regular
 CPD.

 We monitor the effectiveness of PGR development through a number of mechanisms. First,
 PGRs are members of URC and Faculty Research Committees and thus have direct input into
 action plans. Second, we have a Research Student Forum with PGR representatives from all
 faculties and institutes, which meets 4 times per annum. Suggestions and comments are fed
 back into working groups and committees. Third, we monitor admissions, progression and
 completion in an annual report. Finally, we encourage PGRs to participate in the Postgraduate
 Research Student Experience Survey (PRES), and develop action plans based on the results,
 monitored through URC. We saw a significant increase in the response rate to PRES (from 29%
 in 2015 to 77% in 2019) and PGR satisfaction. In 2019, we achieved 83% overall satisfaction (up
 from 77% in 2015), which placed us in 28th place nationally (out of 103 institutions), with rankings
 of 11th place for quality of supervision and 22nd place for research culture. Doctoral completions
 increased from 126 in REF2014 to 248 in REF2021.

                                Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI is at the heart of what we try to achieve as an employer and an educator. We work closely
 with national organisations such as Advance HE and Stonewall, local community groups and
 staff networks to be inclusive. UoW holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award (first 2013, re-
 accredited 2019), a Race Equality Charter (REC) award (2020), and we ranked 62 out of 434
 employers in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index 2018. We won the Midlands Stonewall
 Award 2017 when our LGBT staff network was recognised as the West Midlands Public Sector
 Staff Network of the Year, and the 2017 Guardian award for BME leadership mentioned above.
 We employ trained British Sign Language interpreters who translate at public events for wider
 audiences and support deaf staff and students.

 We regularly evaluate EDI dimensions of research and researcher development initiatives. For
 example, an evaluation of the first 10 years of the ERAS programme showed that it supports
 career development, but more women than men achieved promotions. ERAS is open to full and
 part-time staff, but funding and time adjustments are made as needed for PT staff. To develop
 the REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP), we consulted all staff, held meetings with staff networks
 and received input from Advance HE. This resulted in measures such as written (and on request
 verbal) feedback on reviewed outputs and an option for confidential HR support in individual
 circumstance declarations. We paid attention to being inclusive in developing impact with 66% of
 our case studies having female authors, in addition to addressing EDI topics. We managed staff
 individual circumstances within the flexibility that the Guidance on outputs offered in all but
 UoA4, where the combination of it being a new submission and the scale of circumstances (37%
 of submitted staff had one or more) led to an approved REF6b.

 There has been substantial progress on making research more inclusive. We submit a greater
 proportion of younger staff <age 35 (9% of submitted compared to 5% in REF2014), more staff

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 who declared a disability (20 or 6% compared to 5 or 3% in REF2014), and 23% of submitted
 staff identified as BAME compared to 21% in REF2014. The proportion of women submitted has
 also grown from 27% to 39%. However, fewer women chose research compared to a TSPP
 profile, and the institutional gender pay gap is 28.5% for the median hourly wage gap and 14.9%
 for the mean hourly wage gap. The professoriate and senior staff teams’ protected
 characteristics show a predominance of staff aged 45 or older (89%) with 20% of the
 professoriate aged 65 and over. 42% identify as female (26% of professors and 57% of senior
 staff), and 8% declared a disability (7% of professors and 10% of senior staff). Only 18% identify
 as BAME (25% of professors and 12% of senior staff).
 Because of this, we made gender in research a focus of activities as detailed in our REF2021
 CoP and Athena SWAN action plan, and prioritised efforts to have greater ethnic diversity in
 senior posts as detailed in the REC.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research support services are provided by three departments: Project Support Office (PSO)
 which focuses on pre- and post-award project support and management; the RPU for research
 strategy and policy, research ethics and integrity, and research data management; and the DC
 for PGRs (section 3). All are based in a central University Research Hub located on UoW’s
 Wulfruna Campus. The Finance Department provides financial and project costing support.

 RPU and PSO jointly develop strategies and support for external research funding. We targeted
 Horizon2020 and other EU funders in line with our research strategy to address societal
 challenges through inter-disciplinary and international collaborative research. To that end, we set
 up a Brussels Office, which provides intelligence and advance warning of EU policy and funding
 developments; facilitates training on EU funding, proposal development and bid writing; delivers
 partner searches; and engages in networking and profile-raising activities. Subsequently, our
 income from EU sources has grown to GBP12 million in REF2021 compared to GBP4.2 million
 in REF2014, and we made strides in developing large-scale inter-disciplinary research projects
 (section 2).

 The PSO’s pre-award service supports grant applications through proposal quality assurance
 and proposal submission functions. The Project Management and Governance Team focuses on
 post-award services and monitoring of funded grants and contracts, ensuring compliance with
 funder rules. The work is supported by a Project Costings and Bidding System (PCB) and
 associated processes to provide bid quality assurance and effective and accurate costings.
 Partly due to the dedicated support for external funding, we increased our external research
 income to GBP25 million compared to GBP14.5 million in REF2014.

 RPU is responsible for research strategy, research policy and has oversight of the University’s
 Current Research Information System Symplectic Elements. It also has oversight of the
 University’s Impact Strategy and employs 3 Impact Officers (section 1). Other corporate service
 departments provide dedicated professional support for research, including HR (EDI, staff
 development, staffing strategy, policies); Finance (external funding); Library (open access and
 scholarly communications); Registry (research student data); and External Relations (research
 impact and publicity). In total, over 40 central professional staff directly support research
 activities.

 As part of our Strategic Plan 2016-21, we delivered the GBP250 million ‘Our Vision, Your
 Opportunity’ investment programme, which included investment in research facilities in the
 science labs in the Rosalind Franklin Building; a new Business School; built environment and
 civil engineering labs and equipment at a reclaimed brownfield site on Springfield Campus;
 state-of-the-art sports and healthcare facilities; and a centre for cybersecurity in Hereford. These
 research facilities are co-located with our teaching and knowledge exchange activities to
 facilitate sharing and collaboration. All are used by our non-academic collaborators, and our
 campuses are open to the public.



                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Facilities provide access for disabled users, and disabled staff and students are supported with
 specialist equipment and services as needed. Our Vice-Chancellor leads the national Disabled
 Students’ Commission. In 2020, we piloted a peer review process for funding bids, which
 monitors protected characteristics and will be rolled out from 2021.




                                                                                             Page 8
