REF5a - Institution Environment Statement




                                            1
1. Context and Mission
Swansea University embraces the full spectrum of academic and cultural endeavour, leading
thinking and delivering research outcomes for the benefit of all.
A research-intensive University located in one of the most deprived regions within Northern Europe
(West Wales and the Valleys), we are an anchor university, creating economic, societal, cultural and
health impact with global reach, remaining true to our 100+ year mission. Alongside discovery
research, we foster ambitious collaborations, co-creating research and delivering transformative
innovations with our partners. We are a community united in a common purpose; to make a
difference for the better, to lives and futures, across society and borders. We promote and facilitate
an exciting and thriving, collaborative research culture, enabling impact. Our enhanced vitality since
REF2014 is exemplified in figure 1:




Swansea University is a diverse community of nearly 22,000 students and 3,500 staff. Our
commitment to excellence in research and teaching is fully embedded. We are proud of our leading
reputation for both research and teaching excellence as seen in figure 2.




                                                                                                    2
Since REF2014, research has been undertaken in all seven Colleges/Schools, supported by eleven
professional service directorates, with dedicated Research Hubs. Founded on STEM subjects in
1920, our academic breadth was swiftly enriched by addition of social sciences and humanities.
More recently, our Medical School (ranked top 10 in three UK League Tables, 2020) was founded in
2004, with Education and Chemistry launched during the REF2021 period.
By investing in people and infrastructure, we ensure our research environment enhances our
research units. Over the period from REF2014, we have grown in numbers (figure 3):




In REF2014, Swansea University was one of the most improved institutions climbing from 52 nd to
26th in the UK, making the “biggest leap among research-intensive institutions”1 (Times Higher
Education).
Now in our second century, we are building on our significant successes, ambitious to make a
difference to lives and futures through excellent, responsible research, and seeking to extend our
global reach. From 2021, we will evolve into three faculties (from seven Colleges/Schools) - Science
and Engineering, Humanities and Social Sciences, and Health and Life Sciences. We will simplify
the way we work, build on our successes, improve our resilience, challenge the boundaries of
knowledge and facilitate new opportunities for interdisciplinary research, education and impact (§2.2,
§2.4). A key impetus for change is to achieve progress against the UN Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs).


2. Institutional Research and Impact Strategy
Our evidenced, rapid rise in research intensity1 laid a strong foundation for our follow-on Research
and Innovation (R&I) Strategy 2020, further improving capability and capacity to deliver world-class
research, teaching and student experience, and driving significant and far-reaching benefits
(impact).


2.1 Achievement of strategic (R&I) goals 2020
The Committee for R&I Strategy, (CRIS), chaired by a PVC, with cross-College/School Directors
of Research and professional service membership, has responsibility to Senate for the R&I Strategy
(illustrated in figure 4).


1
    https://www.timeshighereducation.com/news/ref-2014-winners-who-performed-best/2017591.article
                                                                                                    3
Key achievements over the REF2021 period are summarised below for each strategic pillar and
cross-cutting theme:
   Research Excellence: through clear promotions criteria, recognition and reward, and support
    for developing leaders, we have retained talent (§3; figure 5). Through focussed Equality and
    Diversity actions we have improved researcher diversity (§3.1 & §3.5).




   Postgraduate Research: our University-wide Postgraduate Research Office (PGRO) supported
    1,137 (headcount) PhD completions (97% growth since REF2014).
   Impact and innovation: dedicated, strategic investment in infrastructure (§4.1) and activities
    (§2.2) has enabled impact and innovation successes. The UK Government-commissioned
    Science & Innovation Audit (SIA) for Wales recognised our strengths in: Steel Innovation, Smart
    Manufacturing and Health Innovation; and in pan-Wales thematics, Digital Technologies and
    Sustainable Energy. Our impact is evidenced in 59 submitted Case Studies.
   Research Income: with year-on-year growth, and as a major recipient of EU investment
    (£123M), we have diversified and grown income by 41% over the REF2021 period. UKRI awards
    increased by 152% in the latest five years, enabled by strategic investment in Research Hubs
    (§4.1).

                                                                                                 4
   Global Reputation: our expanded academic/business partner networks now cover 127
    countries. 54% of research outputs are internationally co-authored (with a Field-weighted Citation
    Impact of 2.8, Scival 2020), and enhanced by deep International Strategic Partnerships.
    Partnership with eight top Texas Universities (2014) has yielded 228 joint publications; and our
    Swansea-Grenoble Alpes University partnership (2016) has supported >30 joint PhDs and >50
    joint grant applications.
   Research Environment and Culture: delivered a £450M science and innovation “Bay” campus
    in 2015. An additional >£100M building and infrastructure programme across both campuses
    houses world-leading research (§4.2). We invested a further £23M in state-of-the-art equipment.
    New laboratories have brought academia and stakeholders together e.g. with Natural Resources
    Wales (NRW) Analytical Services facilities (2017). Inclusive and open, we encourage public
    engagement activity, and inter-disciplinary working (§2.4).
   Research Governance: established a comprehensive research integrity policy framework for
    research ethics & governance (2015; §2.4), in accordance with UK Research Integrity Office’s
    (UKRIO) Code of Practice and the UK Policy Framework for Health & Social Care Research.


Future plans
Delivering research and innovation of the highest quality, our ambitions are to achieve significant
and far-reaching impact on SDGs and:
(1) further grow our reputation as an open, research-intensive institution excelling in
    interdisciplinary and collaborative research;
(2) further strengthen our national and international partnerships to broaden the depth, reach and
    impact of our research; and
(3) fully engage the public and community in the design, conduct and dissemination of our research.


We will:
   continue to invest in exceptional researchers, further promoting a culture of equality, respect
    and integrity, enabling researchers at all career stages to flourish and produce impactful and
    responsible research and innovation of the highest quality;
   grow and diversify our research-income portfolio to ensure sustainability; further enhancing
    the quality and scale of research across all our disciplines;
   establish the first Institute for Advanced Studies in Wales, the Morgan Advanced Studies
    Institute (MASI), to drive impactful, interdisciplinary and policy-relevant research;
   capitalise on our strategy at the forefront of knowledge exchange to build and strengthen
    innovation capacity and impact;
   intensify our partnership working from South Wales to the world;
   invest in new interdisciplinary infrastructure, e.g. £30M Centre for Integrative Semiconductor
    Materials; and
   deepen strategic collaborations with existing (e.g. Rolls Royce, Tata Steel, Pfizer, Public
    Bodies, Health Boards, SMEs) and new partners; delivering transformational impact with local
    and global reach.




                                                                                                    5
2.2 Enabling Impact
We facilitate impact through our foundational, integrated strategy, from a community/industry
driven agenda enabled by innovative, collaborative research, and knowledge exchange (KE).
Impact and Engagement Officers within our Research Engagement and Innovation Services (REIS)
are embedded within Research Hubs, and they support the identification of and connectivity with
target communities/industries (§4.1).


Examples of how we deliver impact include:
   Developing productive partnerships with industry and the public sector; e.g. our LINC
    network (a collaborative network enabling private, public and third-sector organisations to
    connect and access resources and expertise to support growth) has yielded KTPs, and Smart
    partnerships, leading to economic growth, productivity, and prosperity for the region and beyond;
    and ARCH, (A Regional Collaboration for Health), with Abertawe Bro Morgannwg and Hywel Dda
    University Health Boards, accelerating healthcare innovation.
   Exploiting intellectual property (IP) and professional know-how; e.g. Agor IP £13.1M EU-
    funded project (2016-2023), providing IP support to translate research into new products,
    processes, and services (figure 6).




   Supporting researchers to embed impact in their research design through peer mentoring,
    overseen by an Institutional Impact Leader. Tailored impact training and departmental Impact
    Away Days delivered by Research Hubs are funded by our Impact Acceleration Account
    (§4.1).
   Purpose-built facilities to foster new industries e.g. SPECIFIC, our UK Innovation and
    Knowledge Centre (UKRI), that pivoted to manufacture sanitisers during the COVID-19
    pandemic.


2.3 Open Research Approach
Swansea is committed to Open Research principles and practice, creating a future landscape built
on transparency, sharing and collaboration. Our Green Open Access (OA) Policy (2015), overseen


                                                                                                   6
by CRIS, embraces UK policy on access to publicly funded research. Successful implementation is
evidenced by 97.5% of REF2021 in-scope outputs being compliant:
   Our UKRI open-access block-grant funding (£862K over the period) supported authors to
    publish gold open-access and full-text publications, deposited in our Research Information
    System (RIS) and made accessible via our public repository, Cronfa.
   We promote the highest standards in research data and records management and are working
    towards compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data.
   Our policy on research-data management ensures datasets underpinning published research
    are available for scrutiny, appropriately archived, and researchers are strongly encouraged to
    make underpinning datasets and software open-access.
   Our Local UK Reproducibility Network Leadership ensures we advance robust research,
    researcher training and disseminate good practice.
   Our Forum for Open Research and Scholarship brings researchers together to explore
    challenges and strengthen research integrity.
   Library membership of the Welsh Libraries Forum, the Digital Preservation Centre, LIBER
    (European Research Libraries network), and Europeana (EU-wide cultural network), further
    advances open research and scholarship.
   Compliant with the 2020 Wellcome Trust guidance on the implementation of responsible and fair
    approaches for research assessment, we are a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
    Research Assessment (2018). Our decision-making processes comply with the UK Forum for
    Responsible Research Metrics’ six principles and are embedded in our REF2021 Code of
    Practice, Statements of Intent and our Statement on the Fair Assessment of Research and Use
    of Bibliometrics.


2.4 Supporting Research
Interdisciplinarity
Since our success in REF2014, we have further promoted interdisciplinary research via Engineering
and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) funded Bridging the Gaps and Building Global
Engagements in Research programmes, and our EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA).
Our Research Grant Enabler funding (SURGE) pump primes interdisciplinary research with
success, e.g. EU H2020 ‘PATROLS’, a €12.7M global project for safer nano-materials.
We embrace and encourage interdisciplinarity e.g. through cross-cutting NanoHealth and Cyber
Threats Research Centres. Our CHERISH Digital Economy Centre transcends four UoAs, and
researchers from six disciplines lead our EPSRC CDT in Enhancing Human Interactions and
Collaborations with Data and Intelligence-driven Systems.


Integrity
The University has embedded a positive commitment to Research Integrity underpinning our
research activity:
   Our Vice-Chancellor chairs UUK’s Research Integrity Forum and we are a signatory to the
    Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
   We subscribe to UKRIO and are committed to research integrity outlined within our Research
    Integrity Policy Framework. Implementation is monitored by our Research Ethics &
    Governance Committee (REGC) chaired by an Academic Dean for Research Integrity and
    Ethics, reporting to CRIS.
                                                                                             7
   Our cross-disciplinary Research Institute for Ethics & Law supports our research integrity
    infrastructure.
   Training in research integrity ensures researchers are aware of their obligations, including to
    the reproducibility of research, through mandatory on-line training provided by Epigeum. Our
    researcher development programme extols Open Science.
   Our policy on handling allegations of research misconduct ensures any malpractice is
    robustly addressed and aligns with UKRIO best practice.
   Our Research Integrity website provides information on policies, governance and training
    initiatives, overseen by CRIS, to ensure these principles are central to research activities and
    fully embedded in our research culture.
   College/Schools’ Research Ethics Committees oversee all relevant ethical approvals for staff
    and students, and report to REGC.
   The University is a signatory to the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research. Research
    involving animals is monitored by our Animal Welfare & Ethical Review Board, reporting to
    REGC and is fully compliant with the Animal (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 (Amended 2012)
    and Code of Practice for the accommodation and care of animals.
   Our Clinical Trials Unit is UK Clinical Research Collaboration (UKCRC)-registered. We are
    compliant with the Human Tissue Act 2004, Human Tissue Authority (HTA) standards with robust
    quality management, and HTA codes of practice, including standard operating procedures,
    monitored by REGC.


Collaborations and Partnerships
The Academic Partnership Department facilitates development, growth, delivery and oversight of
risk, quality and sustainability in partnerships. Partnerships with Grenoble-Alpes, Texas and Wuhan
have delivered impactful collaborative research, PGR completions and student/staff mobility (§2.1).


Engagement to inspire, educate, and demonstrate our research.
We contribute to our community through investment in our Taliesin Theatre, Great Hall and Egypt
Centre, and deliver extensive outreach programmes promoting higher education and research. We
hosted the British Science Festival in 2016 and since 2017 organise an annual, Swansea Science
Festival with the National Waterfront Museum (~9,000 visitors/year).
Our Research-as-Art competition and our international Dylan Thomas Prize (pictured below)
achieve global publicity. Research-as-Art entries have been exhibited in the Royal Institution,
London, and by strategic partners in Texas.




Our commitment to public engagement is exemplified by our Oriel Science exhibitions (Impact Case
Study UoA9), Soapbox Science, Technocamps (UoA11), Science for Schools Scheme (multiple
UoAs), Swansea Law Clinic (UoA18); our research-led Health and Wellbeing Academy (UoA2) and
regeneration of Place; “Copperopolis” (UoA28), together supporting economic and social prosperity
and wellbeing of Swansea.
                                                                                                8
3. Staffing
3.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
Our strategy is to recruit and retain exceptional researchers at all career stages and across different
academic career pathways, investing in and supporting ambition and talent.
Delivery of this strategy has led to recognition by the European
Commission HR Excellence in Research Award for our commitment
to support the career development of research staff (renewed June
2019).
Illustrating improvement in our diversity profile, our 607 (578 FTE)
Category A submitted staff include 30% (180) female; 15% (92) ECR;
25% (150) BAME; and 5% (30) declared a disability (figure 7).




Since REF2014, we have recruited 249 new
Category A submitted staff (headcount) and
figure 8 illustrates their age profile.
We attract researchers using fair and
transparent recruitment processes. Clearly
defined, objective criteria are used in our
decision making, role descriptions, and person
specifications, working to consistent indicative
performance levels.
Job advertisements include positive-action
statements appropriate to the current gender
balance of the discipline.
We appoint academic staff to one of three
Academic Career Pathways (ACP) across core
areas of our mission:


                                                                                                     9
   enhanced Research (Category A submitted staff);
   enhanced Teaching; and
   enhanced Innovation and Engagement (supporting partnerships and impact).
ACPs define performance expectations for each grade, from probationary lecturers through to senior
professors, adjusted for part-time staff, individual circumstances and protected characteristics. ACPs
are embedded in all academic people-processes, including probation, professional development
reviews (PDR), promotion, and the expected contribution of Category A staff to the pool of
submittable outputs.


Progression and recognition
We are sector-leading in ensuring 99% of non-probationary staff benefit from an annual PDR,
enabling staff to reflect on their performance and contribution to the UoA, and the profession. PDRs
enable line managers to evaluate progress, recognise achievement, and explore career-
development opportunities. We provide comprehensive development support for researchers at
all career stages, including mentoring schemes, skills workshops, wellbeing provision, and >40
training courses mapped against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
We promote leadership programmes run by Advance HE (Aurora for female colleagues, with 79
participants in the period; Diversifying Leadership for 3 BAME colleagues) and LGBT Leadership
Programme for 2 colleagues (run by Stonewall). Current and future leaders have access to our
Leadership Development Programme.
All staff below Professor-level receive annual salary increments until reaching the maximum for the
grade. At Professorial level, our Remuneration Committee awards salary increments based on
performance against the ACP criteria. All Research Fellows/Officers, Lecturers, Senior Lecturers
and Associate Professors are entitled to apply for promotion each year.
Colleagues are supported by mentors through the promotion process. Figure 9 shows the improving
outcomes of the Academic Promotion Committee over the latest 5-year period (2020 process
incomplete at census date).




Each College/School has a fair and transparent sabbatical policy tailored to meet the specific needs
of its disciplines and communities, e.g. staff may apply for extended leave to work on research
outputs, grant applications, impact initiatives or further professional development. Recognition for
researchers who are delivering significant and far-reaching impact is provided through time allocation
and recognised in academic promotion pathways.
We became the first Welsh HEI to join Employers for Carers (2019) providing a source of support
and advice for staff with caring responsibilities and our flexible-working policy, including remote
working, applies to all staff.
Our commitment to equality and diversity informs all policies and procedures. We have developed a
Health and Wellbeing strategy providing comprehensive wellbeing services including counselling

                                                                                                   10
integrated within our Wellbeing Service and research-led Health & Wellbeing Academy.
Investment in these increased by 134% since 2014 (+£265K).


3.2 Concordat to Support Researcher Career Development
We recognise the crucial contribution research staff make to our internationally excellent and world-
leading research. Consequently, we are committed to providing a genuinely supportive environment and
culture, where researchers can thrive both professionally and personally. Our Research Staff Working
Group (RSWG) places researcher voices at the forefront in CRIS. CRIS oversees delivery against
the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff action plan and supports the
development of research staff aligned to the Researcher Development Framework, our Strategic
Plan and our Strategic Equality Plan (SEP).
Support and training for researchers and their managers is coordinated by HR, supported by
REIS, the PGRO and Library. Training for Principal Investigators and Research Leaders (PIRL) has
enhanced confidence in providing career advice to researchers including those on fixed-term
contracts (our PIRL Survey data 2019: 88% confident; versus 71% nationally).


3.3 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
ECRs strengthen the vitality of our research community. Our outstanding ECRs undertake an
induction programme, guided by their line manager and mentor through a three-year probationary
period. This equips them with the necessary skills to achieve required performance levels while
instilling the ambition to reach the next performance level to achieve promotion. Since 2015, 94
Category A staff have completed our PGCertHE, a probationary requirement for those with limited
HE-teaching experience. The qualification secures Fellowship of Advance HE.
We fund future research leader participation in the Welsh Crucible programme. The Crucible works
with 30 promising researchers annually to foster innovation, cross-disciplinary collaboration, and
links with Welsh Government and the media. During the REF2021 period, 44 ECRs (52% female,
19% BAME) successfully participated in the scheme (24% of available places).
Our flagship Florence Mockeridge Fellowship programme supports aspiring researchers through
a specialist programme of mentoring and training, encouraging ECRs to attain external research
funding. Since 2018, 23 researchers (13 female) from all Colleges/Schools have been selected for
the Fellowship, with 17 (72%) applying for UKRI grants with 40% success rate.


3.4 Research Students (PGRs)
Our outstanding PGRs pursue open, interdisciplinary research and achieve academic, personal and
professional successes, supported through cross-disciplinary supervisory panels. In this assessment
period, we supervised 1,137 PhD students (headcount) to completion, compared to 577 in REF2014
(97% growth).
In 2015, PGR support was professionalised and coordinated, streamlining administration, facilitating
greater collaboration, and placing the doctoral researcher at its heart. As a result, the Postgraduate
Research Office (PGRO) was established in 2016, with a Dean for Postgraduate Research, a PGR
Committee (with College/School PGR Directors), a PGR Administrators’ Forum, and a PGR Student
Forum.
We focus on the vitality, sustainability and excellence of our PGR community. We initiated University-
wide PGR working groups to shape our new successful Postgraduate Research Training
Framework (launched in 2016/17), as detailed below. Including training courses for students (81)
and supervisors (5), the PGRO works with Colleges/Schools to ensure complementarity and targeted

                                                                                                   11
delivery of doctoral research training with supervisor training embedded at all academic career
levels.
Our PGR students are encouraged in public engagement. In the period, 138 PGRs entered our
Three Minute Thesis competitions, with one student reaching the UK final (2018). Sixty students
participated in the FameLab Swansea heat, with 29 reaching the All-Wales regional finals, three
progressing to the UK finals, and one runner-up in the international final (2020).
We introduced prizes and awards to recognise and celebrate success, including James Callaghan
Doctoral Scholars; James Callaghan Thesis prize, and our own Research & Innovation Awards
(pictured) honouring Rising Stars (PGR) and Outstanding Research Supervision.




Cohort-based doctoral opportunities have increased. In 2016/17, we refocused our studentship
scheme and have funded 52 scholarships (13 co-funded with our international partners). In 2017/18,
we introduced a new strategy for doctoral training programmes yielding a 150% increase in the
number of competitively won Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training
Partnerships (DTPs) in areas of outstanding research strength. We lead four CDTs funded by
EPSRC and UKRI, and are part of the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) CDT in
Data Intensive Science, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council South West
Biosciences DTP and the Economic and Social Research Council Wales DTP.
We also hold algorithmically allocated EPSRC and STFC DTP studentships; our EPSRC 2020
allocation has increased by 123% since 2018. Approximately 60% of these scholarships are co-
funded by collaborative research partners, e.g. Airbus, Microsoft, and Rolls Royce iCASE awards.
Our PGR-funding sources have also diversified, e.g. AXA, Natural Environment Research Council,
National Centre for the Replacement Refinement & Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3R) and
KE Skills Scholarships.


3.5 Equality and Diversity (E&D)
We promote equality of opportunity and welcome diversity. This is evidenced in our
policies/procedures and Strategic Equality Plan (SEP), and reported annually. We pursue an open
and transparent approach to recruitment and selection and monitor against all protected
characteristics as required by the Public Sector Equality Duty in Wales.
All Academic Colleges/Schools proactively engage with the Athena SWAN Charter and our
commitment to E&D is exemplified by our 9 Advance HE accreditations (figure 10).


                                                                                               12
The proportion of female colleagues within our
professorial community has increased from 13% in
2014 to 23% in 2019 (figure 11).
This considerable improvement brings us closer to the
sector average (28% HESA 19-20) but we are fully
committed to making further progress.
Our average institutional gender pay gap has reduced
from 23% in 2015-16 to 19.43% in 2019-20 (mean), and
from 19% to 13.68% (median).
We are addressing these imbalances by encouraging
the recruitment and promotion of women to senior roles.




                          We are also a member of Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter. Our
                          University SEP details ambitious objectives, key drivers and planned
                          actions for monitoring progress towards Silver Athena SWAN renewal by
                          2022, and a successful Race Equality Charter application by 2024.


                          Our Equality Committee oversees work related to the Athena SWAN
                          Charter, Race Equality Charter, and Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.




                                                                                              13
                          We are consistently featured in Stonewall’s annual list of the UK’s ‘Top
                          100 Employers’ for workplace inclusivity (2016-date):


                          Ranked 47th overall in 2020, 6th among participating universities.


                          Stonewall highly commended our LGBT+ Staff Network (2017, 2018), we
                          received the highest possible score for creating a trans-inclusive workplace
                          (2019).


Abiding by the University’s Code of Practice, the identification of staff with significant responsibility
for research, and determining their independence reflects our unwavering commitment to E&D. The
University's Equality and Diversity Sub-Group considered all self-reported individual staff
circumstances for REF2021, made recommendations on reductions to an individual’s expected
contribution to the output pool, and all recommendations have been respected.


4. Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities
As a research-intensive Welsh HEI, we contribute to Welsh Government’s “twin priorities of
delivering social justice and supporting a buoyant economy”2 and the Wellbeing of Future
Generations (Wales) Act (2015), addressing the long-term impact of decisions.


4.1 Institutional Strategies and Activities for Generating Research Income
Through our strategic engagement with the Welsh Government National Framework Strategy Group,
the University performs a key role in influencing and framing the regional priorities underpinning
research and innovation investment in Wales. As the anchor University in South West Wales we
have led the engagement with the UK Government on behalf of the region when shaping the
Swansea City Deal investment portfolio. Beyond Wales, we encourage and support representation
on national and international strategic advisory and funding panels.
Targets over the REF2021 period have included:
     UKRI priorities, achieved strategic partner status with EPSRC with award success rate of 30%
      worth £92M;
     UK Government Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, e.g. winning the (£9M) Active Building
      Centre developing cutting-edge materials which generate electricity;
     Welsh Government, establishing Administrative Data Research Wales to develop evidence for
      the Welsh “Prosperity for All” strategy.
     West Wales and the Valleys European Regional Development Framework Operational
      Programme; our £35M IMPACT facility (§4.2) co-locating industry and academia.
     Swansea Bay City Deal; awarded £10M for an RD&I hub, we are developing, demonstrating,
      and accelerating the uptake of disruptive, smart-manufacturing technologies. This hub
      encompasses our ASTUTE 2020, Factory of the Future, and Active & Intelligent Digital Twin
      Institute initiatives.
REIS provide critical, underpinning operational support in delivery of the R&I Strategy and ambition
for research income growth, adding value and fostering the quality of impact. REIS comprises of

2
    WG Policy Statement on HE 2013
                                                                                                      14
centrally-based teams and four Research Hubs, embedded across Colleges/Schools, were
introduced as part of our strategy to facilitate all aspects of the grant application process from
opportunity evaluation, through grant submission, contracts, impact support and post-award financial
claims.
Each Research Hub comprises:
   Hub Manager;
   Research Development Officer;
   Bid Writer;
   Impact and Engagement Officer;
   Research Support Advisor.


REIS staff complement College/School-led research development working with researchers to
support high-quality funding applications. The Hubs promote opportunities for interdisciplinary
collaboration, deliver research-development training sessions and themed events, and coordinate
visits to and from funders, including UKRI.
REIS delivers entrepreneurial skills development for researchers, supporting and growing IP
provision. We focus on exploiting a pipeline of commercialisation and licensing opportunities from
our IP portfolio, and attracting inward investment from global companies.
To facilitate R&I bid development, staff are encouraged to apply for internal seed-corn funding,
e.g. through our global challenges QR allocation, our EPSRC-funded CHERISH Digital Economy
Centre and (since 2012) an EPSRC IAA (figure 12).




Our strategy and support structure delivered a substantial increase in research awards over the
REF2021 period (figure 13):




We have also successfully diversified our portfolio from European Social funds since 2016 (figure
14) and are deepening European collaborations that are foundational for our future Horizon Europe
aspiration.



                                                                                                 15
4.2 Infrastructure and Facilities Supporting Reproducible Research and Enabling Impact
Over the REF period, our environment has transformed to strengthen and power our research and
impact delivery. With support from Welsh Government, the Welsh European Funding Office, the
European Investment Bank (EIB), and commercial and public sector funders, we have made
significant infrastructure investments to support innovation and impact.
Our £450M science and innovation Bay Campus (pictured) opened in 2015 as “one of the top five
knowledge-economy projects in Europe”3 and a major RD&I asset for Wales.




                                                              Bay Campus 2015



3
    European Investment Bank
                                                                                          16
We have co-located with industrial partners, e.g. Rolls Royce in our University Technology Centre
on the Bay Campus delivering a mix of academic research and commercial activities in the Institute
of Structural Materials (ISM), housing substantial mechanical test laboratories – SMaRT is an
exemplar of the academia-industry knowledge transfer model at the heart of the Bay development.
We have also developed our Singleton Campus (pictured) with the strategic objective to co-locate
industry and for knowledge generation, grow our Life Science cluster (e.g. Data Science Building,
and Health and Wellbeing Academy), Environmental Science cluster (e.g. Natural Resources Wales
Analytic Services), and Social Sciences (e.g. expanding the Law School, and creating new space
for our Centre for Innovative Ageing).




                                                                  Singleton Campus


Additional significant investments on our two campuses in the period include:
   Computational Foundry (2019, £32.5M), houses Computer Science and Mathematics and
    home to the EPSRC-funded Cherish Digital Economy Research Centre (2015, £7.6M), with >200
    UK-based and 40 international partners;
   Institute for Innovative Materials, Processing & Numerical Technologies – IMPACT (2019,
    £35M), providing hub space for 150 researchers. Three companies have now established their
    R&D base in the building;
   Legal Innovation Lab Wales (2019, £5.6M), supporting interdisciplinary research at the
    intersection of Law and technology;
   Energy Safety Research Institute – ESRI (2015, £12M), enabling research across energy and
    energy safety related disciplines;
   Data Science Building (2015, £8M), housing SAIL, our research on patient and population
    health and Informatics, eHealth, and administrative data, we are curating and interrogating
    billions of person-based records to uncover new knowledge about health and disease;
   Steel and Metals Institute - SaMI (2018), with donation of research equipment (£5.2M) from
    Tata Steel and the Welsh Government (£3.8M) supporting innovation in the steel and metals
    industry in Wales;
   Institute of Creative Ageing Industries (2019, £2.5M), a living lab addressing the challenges
    affecting an ageing population; and
   Health and Wellbeing Academy (2017, in collaboration with ARCH), working with the NHS to
    improve the health of people in South West Wales.


                                                                                               17
These investments complement the Institute of Life Science (ILS), a purpose-built medical
research and business incubation facility housing our Joint Clinical Research Facility, Clinical
Imaging Facility, and >10 businesses. ILS also houses the Centre for NanoHealth, an open-
access, interdisciplinary R&D facility.
Our Centre for Sustainable Aquatic Research (CSAR) remains a state-of-the-art, controlled
environment for aquatic research and technological development. In 2019, our marine biologists
procured a £1.3M, purpose-built, 18-metre marine research vessel that is acquiring new knowledge
of life below water.
The University is home to one of two Supercomputing Wales Hubs, which were upgraded in 2018
to deliver a petaflop of computing power. As a partner in the £16M pan-Wales initiative, we have
supported £16M further collaborative, cross-disciplinary R&I awards.
Our Library provides access to over 30,000 on-line journals and 850,000 physical items, as well as
special collections and archives, the most notable relate to Richard Burton and Dylan Thomas,
the South Wales Coalfields and Miners’ Library, the Welsh Writers in English collections, and the
largest Egyptology collection and museum in Wales. A Memorandum of Understanding with the
National Library of Wales underpins research collaboration on digital workflows and platforms,
enabling joint digital and open-scholarship activities.
Our Local UK Reproducibility Network Leadership ensures we continue to advance reproducible
research (§2.4) and is underpinned by our commitment to invest in well-managed infrastructure and
facilities, e.g. Swansea Materials Research & Testing Ltd (SMaRT), which is a UKAS accredited,
mechanical testing laboratory and wholly owned subsidiary based on the University’s leading
capability in Materials.


4.3 Addressing Equality and Diversity
All researchers, regardless of gender, disability or other protected characteristics, are encouraged
and supported to apply for research funding and to make use of the facilities available to them.
The University runs Equality & Diversity and Unconscious Bias training for all staff and we have
made guidance available on Decolonisation of Research and inclusivity as part of the grant
application process, embedding the principles of E&D into the research and innovation lifecycle.
Our Swansea Academy of Inclusivity and Learner Success enables access and support so student
researchers, irrespective of protected characteristics, have the opportunity and support to progress.
Our dedicated Transcription Centre (SUTC) provides accessible print resources and working with the
Disability Office, SUTC coordinators provide accessible formats for materials e.g. electronic text, large
print, braille, audio, tactile diagrams.
We have invested through our R&I Strategy 2020 and delivered discovery-led impacts within an
inclusive, open environment, firmly establishing our forward-looking ambition to achieve significant
and far-reaching impact on SDGs.




                                                                                                      18
