Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 1. Context and mission
 Oxford Brookes is mid-sized, broad disciplinary-based with c.16,900 students (75% UG, 23%
 PGT, 2% research; 59% women) across four Faculties, 14 Departments and 15 UoAs (Table 1).
 Our student body is diverse – 25% BAME, 25% mature, 27% access financial support, 17%
 international. The university has 1017 salaried academic staff (149 teaching-only, 31 research-
 only, 837 teaching & research); 60% women, 13% BAME, 6% early career researcher (ECR) HESA
 2020
     . In addition, the university has 1174 Professional & Support (P&S) staff HESA 2020 and c.100
 contract researchers. The university is based across three campuses in or around the city of
 Oxford with a satellite health campus in Swindon.

 Table 1. Oxford Brookes Academic Structure mapped to primary UoA
   Oxford Brookes    Faculty of Technology,  Faculty of Health &  Faculty of Humanities
  Business School    Design & Environment       Life Sciences     and Social Sciences
       (OBBS)                (TDE)                   (HLS)                (HSS)
        UoA17          School of the Built    Dept. Biological &  Dept. Social Sciences
                          Environment         Medical Sciences         (UoA5 & 14)
                            (UoA13)                 (UoA5)
                     School of Architecture  Dept. Sport, Health     Dept. English &
                            (UoA13)           Sciences & Social    Modern Languages
                                                Work (UoA3)              (UoA27)
                     School of Engineering,   Dept. Psychology,       Dept. History,
                      Computing & Maths     Health & Professional Philosophy & Culture
                         (UoA11 & 12)           Development           (UoA19 & 28)
                                                 (UoA3 & 4)
                         School of Arts       Oxford School of       School of Law
                         (UoA32 & 33)        Nursing & Midwifery         (UoA18)
                                                    (UoA3)
                                                                   School of Education
                                                                         (UoA23)

 Established as a university in 1992, we belong to the University Alliance Mission Group. In both
 the TRAC (D) and KEF (F) peer groups, we are placed alongside most post-92 universities in
 which teaching-related income streams dominate and research is categorised as ‘medium
 intensive’.

 Our academic disciplines vary in their maturity and capacity for research. In six UoAs (12, 14, 18-
 19, 27-28) 80<98% staff have significant responsibility for research (SRR); a further five (4-5, 11,
 32-33) >70% have SRR. We also have emerging disciplines (3, 13, 17, 23), where we are building
 research capacity e.g. UoA3/UoA17 have doubled FTE since REF2014 and UoA13 has trebled
 research income. Overall, of the 737.7 FTE staff eligible for REF2021, 377.15 FTE (51.1%) have
 SRR; this compares with 269.49 FTE in REF2014 and 226.23 FTE in RAE2008. This is evidence
 of a sustained investment in developing research excellence, which as shown in Sections 2-4 and
 in UoA statements, has occurred within a vibrant and supportive community of researchers.

 During the assessment period, our Mission statement committed us to leading the intellectual,
 social and economic development of the communities we serve through teaching, research and
 creativity that achieve the highest standards.




                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy
 During the assessment period, our strategic goal of being ‘committed to internationally excellence
 and world-leading research that is exploited and disseminated for the benefit of our communities’
 was underpinned by three strategic objectives:

 1. To pursue and support research of the highest quality that is, or has demonstrable potential to
    become, recognised as internationally excellent or world-leading
 2. To promote and support collaborations and partnerships across the institution and with
    external partners locally, nationally and globally to enhance research excellence and facilitate
    knowledge exchange
 3. To enhance the impact of our research in its broadest terms, and to widen dissemination of
    our research for the benefit of our communities, whether local, regional, national or global,
    including our staff and students

 Strategy implementation is overseen by the PVC Research & Global Partnerships (PVCR) with
 faculty Associate Deans for Research & Knowledge Exchange (ADRKE) and departmental
 Research Leads (RLs). Twice-yearly strategy or policy away-days with the PVCR, ADRKEs, RLs,
 representatives of the Professoriate, ECRs and RKE P&S staff cover key aspects of research,
 innovation & KE (RIKE) delivery, policy review or updating strategy. In this way departmental/UoA
 priorities/needs feed into university-level decision making, ensuring both a bottom up as well as
 top down approach.

 The strategy has been implemented through key actions (below) and has delivered significant
 achievements as detailed in UoA statements.

 To provide a stimulating research environment that fosters research excellence within a
 supportive community of researchers. We established a number of Research Centres (RC) to
 provide a critical mass and focus for collaborative working, ECR mentoring, networking, discipline-
 specific training/development and external engagement, e.g. Environment & Society (UoA14),
 Business, Society & Global Challenges (UoA17) and Psychological Research (UoA4). RCs
 provide opportunities for mid-career researchers to take on leadership/mentorship roles as career
 development. In UoA27, the Poetry Centre epitomises this approach – growing from its grassroots
 beginnings into a globally orientated platform for cultural experimentation with award-winning
 poets.

 Alternatively, research clusters promote inclusive and collegiate working practices. The positive
 impact of this culture is exemplified in UoA19 where development of four research clusters has
 helped generate an increase of grant income (over.100%) and a rise in monographs (25%) since
 REF2014.

 To strengthen disciplinary research areas identified as world leading or internationally
 excellent in REF2014. We have invested QR directly in UoAs (60%) and through a strategic
 central research fund (CRF; 25%) by targeted appointments in Research Fellows (RF) and
 research students (PGR) or by providing academics with timely access to sabbaticals, pump prime
 and/or collaborative travel funds through Research Excellence and Impact (RE&I) awards. UoA
 statements provide numerous examples of how devolved QR and CRF awards have enabled
 completion of significant outputs, time to prepare successful funding bids or the opportunity to
 establish productive collaborations locally or (inter)nationally.



                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 To provide an environment that supports high quality research, we have invested in or supported
 a number of initiatives including:

    ●   Training and development for all (Section 3)
    ●   Membership of UK Research Integrity Office
    ●   Professorial Lead for Research Improvement & Integrity, establishment of ORIGIN, an
        Open Data, Research Integrity and Improvement Steering Group (SG); member of the UK
        HEI Reproducibility Network (2019).
    ●   Embedding data management planning in PGR registration and in annual personal
        research plans
    ●   Investing in our institutional open access (OA) repository RADAR with dedicated Scholarly
        Communication staff, and in CRF awards to support OA
    ●   Signatory to DORA (2020)
    ●   Enhancing support for research ethics

 To provide the structures and support needed to increase the societal and economic
 impact of our research. Integrated into UoA centre/cluster activities are support for impact,
 whether through working collaboratively with end-users to co-create research or promoting
 opportunities to engage with policy makers. In UoA11, this approach is exemplified by creation of
 our Institute for Ethical AI with investment in senior and ECR posts that bridge research/KE across
 computer science (UoA11), social sciences (UoA14) and law (UoA18). Through this approach, the
 institute has established local/regional partners across two consortia to implement AI and machine
 learning solutions in HR and legal professions. The Institute has attracted significant external
 investment including a c.£1,200,000 Research England UEZ award and a KTP with Blenheim
 Palace.

 We embed research impact through a number of activities and investment including:

    ●   University-wide P&S Impact Officers and a Professorial Impact Champion that work with
        Faculty Impact coordinators to provide training and awareness raising events for all
        researchers; including developing and supporting pathways to impact
    ●   Embedding impact planning in annual individual, group and centre plans
    ●   An online, self-service Impact Tracker
    ●   Annual RE&I awards to support and develop impact activities
    ●   Proof of Concept awards and training/development to support commercialisation and
        economic impact of research; investment in P&S staff to support patent applications,
        spinouts and start-ups; Brookes IP portfolio puts us in the top 10 HEIs for IP income and
        KEF metrics place us 2nd for IP income as a proportion of research income
    ●   Refreshed policies to support consultancy, enterprise, IP and spinouts including rewards
        to inventors, which has helped generate new start-ups (e.g. Hand Held Health) and
        spinouts (e.g. MetaGuideX) with 100% success with 3 Innovate ICURe awards
    ●   Establishment of RIKE networks (below) to strengthen engagement and co-creation of
        research with end-users and beneficiaries of research across industry, charities, the
        NHS/Social Care and third sector
    ●   Investment in a university-wide Public Engagement (PE) Champion, a Community & PE
        Network, a number of events (e.g. annual Brookes Science Bazaar); supported by a PDRA
        with 0.5 FTE for PE
    ●   Investing in faculty-run events e.g. biennial HSS Think Human Festival



                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 UoA statements and our selected ICS provide evidence for the success of our approach to
 supporting impact and to the wide ranging ways in which our research benefits society whether
 locally or (inter)internationally.

 Developing research capacity and capability in emerging areas. This can be exemplified by
 our approach in UoA3. In 2016, we established the Oxford Institute for Nursing, Midwifery and
 Allied Health Research (OxINMAHR), which brings together all UoA3 researchers and aims to
 develop nurse and AHP-led research that translates into the improvement of patient outcomes.
 We have invested, and our NHS Trust partners have co-invested, in senior leadership positions,
 RFs, clinical PGR studentships, joint clinical academic fellowships as well as mentoring, writing
 retreats and support for grant applications. This has resulted in doubling the staff with SRR with
 concomitant increases in collaborative projects, grants and PGR students.

 To support and strengthen collaborative and interdisciplinary research excellence.
 Strategy discussions have resulted in the (bottom-up) creation of seven Interdisciplinary RIKE
 Networks to connect researchers across the institution and with external partners. We are
 investing in the networks through WLP time for co-leads (mid-career researchers), P&S
 coordination, collaboration, impact and travel awards and RFs. Networks are guided by a SG of
 senior and ECR researchers with external end-users of research.

 In December 2019, we launched Healthy Ageing & Care, which now includes >50 researchers
 across faculties. In 2020, we launched Children & Young People, Diversity, Inclusion & Gender,
 Migration & Refugees, and Arts & Creative Industries networks. A network linked to our Ethical
 AI Institute and on Sustainable & Resilient Futures will launch summer 2021 (delayed by Covid-
 19).

 Our researchers increasingly contribute to local or (inter)national research communities through
 membership of professional bodies, peer review of outputs and grants, hosting/organising
 conferences or workshops and sitting on Funding Body peer review committees for numerous
 (inter)national organisations; 9 researchers are contributing to REF2021 panels (1 in REF2014
 and RAE2008). Locally, we are represented on the Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) and its
 sub-boards; we have jointly invested in an Enterprise Centre and expanded BioInnovation Hub (to
 open 2022) and a Regional Projects Officer to integrate Brookes’ research into local economic
 development plans e.g. clean growth (UoA13) and transport (UoA12). We work with organisations
 such as Advanced Oxford and Living Oxfordshire CIC and are well connected to the Oxfordshire
 base of Formula 1 supporting the transition to electric racing at all levels (UoA12).

 As a result of these developments, our annual RIKE-related income streams have grown steadily
 since 2014 e.g. 40% growth in HEBCI to c.£13,460,000 and 26% increase in research to
 £6,244,062 in 2019/20. Almost all UoAs have returned significantly higher grant spend (total
 £34,370,656 vs £21,367,622 in REF2014) and PGR completions (432 vs 253). A key contribution
 to the increase in grant income has been the success of our ECR/RF appointments e.g. in UoA5,
 where RFs have been successful in winning external funding from BBSRC, MRC, Wellcome Trust
 & Leverhulme.

 Strategy 2035. In 2020, Brookes launched its vision for 2035, which will be underpinned by our
 five Guiding Principles and delivered through four strategic pillars: Education & Enterprise,
 Research & Innovation, Partnerships & Place and People & Culture. Each pillar has developed a



                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 strategy to deliver key strategic aims over the first 5-year period 2020-25, although these have
 been adapted to include a two-year Covid-19 recovery period in 2020/21 and 2021/22.

 Our new strategy commits us to doubling the ‘RIKE’ contribution to total university income and
 activities by 2035. For Research & Innovation, our aims are:
     • To continue to strive for research excellence that builds on our distinctive disciplinary base,
          fosters interdisciplinary and collaborative working, and delivers transformational social,
          cultural and economic benefit for all of our communities.
     • To strengthen our inclusive and connected research community, increase our
          collaborations with regional and global partners and enhance our capacity for innovation,
          knowledge exchange and enterprise, and to contribute to local, national and international
          initiatives using our expertise and facilities.
     • To invest in growing our academic community, in creating innovative spaces and facilities,
          and providing a collegiate, inclusive environment in which researchers, innovators and
          entrepreneurs at all career stages can flourish and excel.

 3. People
 Staffing strategy. Brookes has implemented a plan for enhancing the staff experience under the
 umbrella of our Guiding Principles (Confidence, Enterprising Creativity, Connectedness,
 Generosity of Spirit) and leadership of a PVC Student/Staff Experience to promote staff inclusion,
 recognition and well-being including:

 ●   Biennial Brookes People Awards recognise individual and team achievements linked to our
     Guiding Principles; many researchers have been nominated or received awards including
     Manfredi (UoA 17 Connectedness), Goody (UoA 28 Colleague of the Year) and Little Firefox
     Project/Nekaris (UoA 5, Enterprising Creativity)
 ●   Annual ‘Achievement, Contribution and Excellence’ awards
 ●   Well-being for researchers e.g. research rambles
 ●   Social events and staff networks (e.g. carers’, LGBT+, and BAME)

 Over the assessment period, we sought to increase capability and capacity for research by
 appointing excellent researchers (or those with potential for research excellence) at all career
 levels and then provide a stimulating and supportive environment in which they can flourish and
 excel (see Section 1).

     ●   Senior Research Leadership appointments
     ●   Promotion of researchers to Readers and Professors (Level 1-4)
     ●   Increasing the number of mid-career research leadership opportunities (e.g. RLs, RIKE
         Network Leads, PGR Tutors)
     ●   Increase the number of PGR students (c.£5,000,000 QR/IP investment)
     ●   Increase RFs (c.£2,500,000 QR investment)
     ●   Mentor and support RFs and ECRs to be competitive in applying for permanent posts
     ●   Support careers development at all levels e.g. RE&I Sabbaticals, Research Leave, Pump
         prime and awards for Post-docs (c.£2,000,000 QR).
     ●   Awards to support UK and international research collaborations (c.£200,000 QR)

 In developing its 2035 strategy, the university has sought to strengthen further its commitment to
 staff through the ‘People & Culture’ pillar. ‘Inclusivity’ becomes our fifth Guiding Principle as a
 sign of our commitment to an inclusive culture and working environment.


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Training & Career Development. On appointment, all research-active staff join our distinctive
 ‘Your First Three Years; YFTY’ programme (c.200 at any one time). In 2020, YFTY was fully
 integrated with teaching and leadership to provide a holistic approach to professional development
 incorporating teaching practice, leadership, research and KE; relaunched as HEA-accredited
 EXPLORE@Brookes post census (September 2020). ECRs and experienced researchers have
 tailored pathways through YFTY, which is overseen by a Director of Researcher Development
 (Vitae Senior Fellow) supported by a dedicated Researcher Development Coordinator. ECR
 research-only staff (including those on fixed-term contracts) attend relevant sessions that will lead
 to HEA Associate Fellowship, as part of our commitment to the 2020 Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers (signed May 2020), which has been recognised with the HR
 Excellence in Research award since 2012; most recently renewed without conditions, May 2020.

 YFTY includes mandatory Research Induction (research integrity, university policies and strategy,
 support and mentoring, impact, OA, data management, career development, internal funding
 schemes to support researchers), Applying for and Managing Research Grants, Supervisor
 Training, Research Ethics, International Collaborations, CPD & Consultancy, Enterprise and IP.
 UoAs provide discipline-specific training.
 In addition, we run a long standing, university-wide research mentoring programme that supports
 all research-active staff at any career stage; increased from 48 to 70 mentees and 82 to 104
 mentors since 2018/19. UoAs also engage in discipline-specific mentoring programmes,
 particularly in the support of ECRs/RFs.

 A biennial Researcher Career Pathways Event for ECR/PGR has been held since 2014 – in 2020,
 96 attended and the theme was ‘Identity’ – beyond the PhD, beyond fixed term contracts and
 careers within and beyond academia. In between years, a Research Intensive Skills Event is held
 for the same audience covering networking, interdisciplinary collaboration, publishing, social
 media, critical thinking, writing and time management.

 In the 2019 Careers in Research Online Survey, we exceeded the sector average response in
 many areas, including agreement with statements such as:
     ● the institution recognising and valuing the researcher’s contributions;
     ● the institution treating research staff equally with other types of staff;
     ● taking ownership of career development and continuing professional development
     ● being treated fairly at the institution, irrespective of personal characteristics.

 Overall, 91% who responded agreed with the statement: "Overall, I am satisfied with my
 experience as a researcher at Oxford Brookes".

 Through an annual open call, with clear criteria, staff can apply for promotion to Senior Lecturer,
 to Principal Lecturer (Student Experience) or Reader and to Professor on either a Research, KE,
 Teaching or Leadership track. To enable Professors to remain in academic roles, they may also
 apply for promotion to Level 2, 3 and 4. EDI monitoring of our promotion statistics has consistently
 shown no gender bias.

 In addition, PDRAs are encouraged to apply for RFs and RFs are encouraged and supported to
 apply for permanent appointments. For example, in UoA14, 10 new academics have been
 appointed since 2014, including 5 ECRs; five now have permanent Lectureships and seven were
 successful in gaining external grants. We use CRF bridging funds to support PDRAs between
 grants.




                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research Students. We have a relatively small cohort of PGR (323.5 FTE at census), which has
 increased from 274.0 FTE since REF2014 largely due to QR/IP investment in scholarships. In
 2014/15 to celebrate Brookes 150th Anniversary, the 150 Scholarship Scheme supported 72 full
 or partial PGRs across all UoAs. Since then we have continued to invest in smaller numbers of
 PGR scholarships per annum using either devolved QR or CRF funds; in UoAs 3-5 IP income is
 also used.

 Over the assessment period, all faculties have developed doctoral training programmes (DTP) to
 provide cohort identity and discipline-specific training/development. All PGR activities, from
 enrolment through to submission of thesis, are overseen by a central Research Degree Committee
 (RDC) and is coordinated by a team of PGR tutors and DTP-leads supported by faculty and central
 Graduate Office teams. Two RDC sub-committees are responsible for registration, progression,
 annual monitoring and examination of science/technology or humanities/social science students.

 The Director of Researcher Development oversees a university-wide induction and training
 programme and ensures this is coordinated with discipline-specific training delivered through
 faculty DTPs. Often university-level events are coordinated with those that support the career
 development of contract researchers e.g. Careers (above).

 Research student voice is achieved through membership of the Graduate College (GC) with
 representation on the GCSG that organises social events and annual opportunities for students to
 showcase their work. PGR are also represented on faculty and university RKE committees, and
 on others such as AS. The RDC, GC and faculty DTPS use feedback from the biennial
 Postgraduate Research Student Experience survey to inform improvements to support PGR
 students.

 Quality of research student experience and progression is monitored annually through student
 reports, supervisor reports and progress interviews with PGR tutors. DTPs also provide
 opportunities for students to showcase their research through oral and poster presentations at
 faculty-wide events.

 All supervisors receive mandatory training appropriate to their level of experience when joining the
 university and training is provided for the role of internal examiner. RDC monitors all examiner
 reports to assure itself of the high quality of theses and to address any concerns raised. Of 83
 theses submitted in 2019/20, 78% were awarded with minor/no amendments with 1 resubmission.
 Whilst in 2018/19, 81% of FT PhD students submitted within 4 years, this reduced to 63% in
 2019/20 (due to Covid-19).

 Commitment to EDI is overseen by the EDI SG chaired by the VC. Our work on gender equality
 (led by PVCR) is informed by insights from research by our Centre for Diversity Policy Research
 and Practice (CDPRP; ICS UoA17). CDPRP provides the evidence for many of our own EDI
 policies as well as those of the sector (inter)nationally, e.g. H2020-funded GEDII (Gender Diversity
 Impact) and GEARING-Roles, to support research institutions with the implementation of gender
 equality plans.

 Brookes joined Athena Swan in 2009, achieving an institutional bronze award in 2012 that was
 renewed in 2016. Three of four faculties (and 14/15 UoAs) hold awards at either bronze (TDE,
 HSS) or silver (HLS) levels; OBBS/UoA17 will submit for bronze in 2021.



                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The gender balance of our senior management team (Vice Chancellor’s Group, VCG; 60%
 women), reflects that of both staff (60%) and students (59%). We have proactively increased
 senior leadership for research since REF2014; of 6 academic leaders on VCG, 5 have SRR. Of
 all senior staff, 48% are women as are 46% of Professors (vs. 27% for the sector).

 Brookes has a long standing WLP allocation model in which academics are allocated to one of
 three WLP tariffs that equate to SRR (1, 1.5 or 2 days per week) or to a scholarship or developing
 researcher (PhD study time) tariff. Rolling 3-year research plans are reviewed annually and tariffs
 adjusted accordingly with time to redress performance if needed.

 Of eligible women, 42% have SRR compared to 56% for men; the difference is explained by two
 large disciplines (UoA3 and 17) where women are over-represented in areas of historic immaturity
 in research capacity (UoA3 - 11% women have SRR and in UoA 17, 34%). In HSS UoAs, 66%
 women have SRR and in TDE UoAs, 54%. Of eligible staff, 688 individuals are White and 119
 BAME and both groups are equally likely to have SRR. There was no significant difference in the
 average number of outputs returned by gender or by ethnicity at university level; in 1 UoA women
 have a higher number of outputs than men and in one other, vice versa; in 3 UoAs, the number of
 outputs by White staff was higher than for BAME, which will be addressed in future strategy for
 these UoAs. All REF EIAs were scrutinised by the UoA teams, REF, AS and EDI SGs.

 Our mean average gross hourly gender pay gap is 10.9% (median 5.7%) and both values have
 reduced steadily over time (e.g. 11.2/8.5% in 2019). Just over 50% of jobs in the upper quartile
 of the pay distribution are held by women. To support career development, we have increased
 the number of mid-career leadership roles available on a 2-year rotational basis (RIKE Network
 leads – 60% women) and have increased support for women returning from maternity leave, e.g.
 a 12-month PDRA was funded to support two UoA5 SLs who were both returning from maternity
 leave in 2019.

 Our commitment to EDI is also demonstrated through success in achieving other awards including:
 Disability Confident Scheme level 2, Stonewall Workplace Equality Index. We have established
 programmes of events celebrating diversity including LGBTQ+, Black History and Disability History
 months as well as International Women’s Day, Bi-visibility Day and Trans Day of Remembrance.
 We have extended engagement with underrepresented groups through establishing staff networks
 (LGBTQ+, BAME and Disability) and recently created faculty and directorate based EDI
 champions.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our annual income from QR is c.£5,500,000 and from HEIF is c.£1,000,000; 60% QR is devolved
 to UoAs in the proportion it was earned, 15% is used to support research infrastructure (RBDO,
 IT and Library) and 25% a strategic CRF used to target selective investment as detailed in
 Sections 2-3.

 HEIF income is used to fund RBDO teams for enterprise, business development, KE and IP as
 well as competitive funding awards to support commercialisation of research (patents, spin outs
 and licences), enterprise and start-ups (c.20 per year in ICEQube). BEHive provides dedicated
 space for enterprise training and business development.

 The university earns increasing income streams from its IP portfolio. After distribution to
 academics (rewards to inventors), the university re-invests about 25% directly in protecting new



                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 IP and in returns to Faculties whose academics earned the IP income. Faculties use the income
 to invest further in RKE in a similar way to QR income.

 Infrastructure The PVCR chairs the university’s senior RKE committee, which has
 representatives from each of the faculties, PGR students, contract researchers, RFs and P&S
 staff. RKEC meets quarterly and reports to Academic Board. Reporting into RKEC are faculty
 RKECs, the RDC, Research Ethics Committee, ORIGIN, Global Challenges SG, REF SG, the KE
 SG and the Directors of RBDO.

 We have approved policies to support high quality research including: Code of Practice (CoP) for
 Academic Integrity (signatory to the Concordat); a statement on the use of responsible metrics
 and signatory to DORA (2020); CoP for research ethics involving human participants and for the
 Career Development of Researchers; Research data management and data protection policies.
 We also have a well-established process for supporting high quality grant applications through
 peer review in faculties with oversight by P&S staff in Faculty Research Offices (FRO) and RBDO.
 We also have policies to support and enable impact from research including IP, Consultancy and
 Spinouts/Starts-ups.

 Support for RIKE activities is provided centrally through the RBDO, which works in partnership
 with FROs, Finance Teams, HR, IT and the Library Scholarly Communications team. RBDO
 provides Pre- and Post-award management of grants and bids, support for research ethics,
 research integrity, REF2021 submission, research impact, training & development, enterprise, IP
 and patents, working with businesses (e.g. KTPs), spinouts and start-ups.

 FROs provide support for grant review processes, PGR administration, appointment of new
 research-only staff and support for the faculty ADRKE and Departmental/School RLs. Together
 with the PVCR, the four ADRKEs comprise the Senior Research Leadership team in the university,
 who meet monthly and oversee investment in RIKE through approved faculty QR expenditure
 plans and the CRF.

 Facilities The university has invested over £200,000,000 in modernising and improving buildings
 and facilities for staff and students and has committed a similar sum over the coming 10 years.
 Researchers have benefitted from the improvements to shared spaces that provide social space,
 cafes, libraries and bookable study space co-located with the PGR Graduate Office. In addition,
 the university is part way through improving disciplinary spaces for research and teaching. In
 2018, OBBS (UoA17) moved into high quality space that enabled researchers and PGR to be co-
 located promoting collaboration and engagement. In 2019, a 4-year refurbishment programme
 for Life Sciences was completed including co-location of Psychology (UoA4) researchers into
 dedicated, researcher-designed space, two floors dedicated to Bioscience research, a state of the
 art Bioimaging Centre and BioInnovation Hub for spinouts (UoA5). Further labs and offices were
 refurbished for Nutrition and Movement Science researchers (UoA 3) and Environmental Studies
 (UoA14).

 In 2018, a mix of new build and refurbishment was completed for the Schools of Architecture and
 Built Environment (UoA 13) including workshops, design studios and exhibition spaces.
 OxINMAHR has been co-located on one site that is convenient for access to local hospitals. Plans
 are in place for refurbishment for Humanities and Social Sciences, Arts and Technology
 (Engineering and Computing) in the next wave of investment.

                                                                                            Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 In addition to buildings and equipment, the university has invested in dedicated IT support for
 researchers including an agreement with Oxford University to provide access to high performance
 computing, WorkTribe grant-costing tool, upgrades to CONVERIS our research information
 system and RADAR our institutional repository for OA and open data.




                                                                                        Page 10
