Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University for the Creative Arts

 1. Context and mission

 University for the Creative Arts is a subject-specialist university submitting to a single unit of
 assessment in REF 2021, UoA 32, Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory. The
 submission to this single unit captures the entire research effort of the University which is thus
 fully represented in the Unit-level Environment statement (REFb). This Institutional-level
 statement is brief. Within the structure specified by the template, it provides the following:
      • Section 1, Context and Mission: a concise overview of the context and mission of the
          University as a whole, and how this frames the specific research context and mission.
      • Section 2, Strategy: an overview of the University strategy and the research strategy,
          with an emphasis on future developments. Past and current delivery of the research
          strategy across the census period is dealt with fully in REF5b.
      • Section 3, People: an introduction to the University’s people strategy and the context this
          provides for staff development in research; details provided in REF5b section 2.
      • Section 4, Income, Infrastructure and Facilities: a brief introduction to these areas with an
          emphasis on technical facilities for both students and staff; details of research income
          and research-specific infrastructure is provided in REF5b section 3.


 1.1.1   University Context and Mission

 (1.1.1) University for the Creative Arts (UCA) is specialist provider of education in the creative
 arts, creative technologies and business for the creative industries. The University’s roots reach
 back to the nineteenth century, and its recent history is built on the 2005 merger of Kent Institute
 of Art and Design and Surrey Institute of Art and Design, leading to the award of University title
 in 2008. At the July 2020 REF census date the University had 173 FTE academic staff (250
 headcount) and around 8,000 higher education students studying for undergraduate,
 postgraduate taught and research degrees. There are also approximately 1,000 further
 education students. Students are located on four campuses in the adjacent counties of Kent and
 Surrey (Canterbury, Epsom, Farnham and Rochester) as well as at Maidstone Studios (film and
 television courses) and Hampton Court Palace (hand embroidery courses). In autumn 2021 the
 University opened a new campus in Xiamen, China.

 (1.1.2) Within its specialism of art, design and business for the creative industries, the University
 offers a broad range of teaching and research organised into 6 discipline-based schools:
     • Architecture (Arch)
     • Business for the Creative Industries (BSCI)
     • Crafts and Design (C&D)
     • Fashion (Fash)
     • Film, Media and Performing Arts (FMPA)
     • Fine Art, Photography and Visual Communication (FAPVC)

 (1.1.3) The University offers a rich educational experience to students in studio-based courses,
 delivered by staff who, within their discipline, specialise in research, pedagogical enquiry or
 industry engagement. They are supported by excellent digital and physical infrastructure,
 facilities and equipment across all subject areas. The quality of UCA’s educational offer is
 evidenced by the achievement of TEF Gold in 2019.


 1.2 Research in the University Context and Mission

 (1.2.1) Research plays an important role in the University’s creative and academic communities
 and the experience it offers to students. The University has research in all areas of UoA 32’s
 broad remit:

                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   art history, design history and visual culture history
    •   practice in many areas of art and design, including fine art, photography, film, animation,
        crafts, performance, spatial and environmental design
    •   art, design and visual culture theory and curation.

 (1.2.2) The University’s researchers produce diverse research that advances knowledge and
 leads to impact, much of it highly visible to public audiences across a range of media and
 cultural sites. 27 per cent (FTE) or 29 per cent (headcount) of UCA’s academic staff have
 significant responsibility for research and are submitted to REF 2021, increased from 13 per cent
 (headcount) in REF 2014.

 (1.2.3) The University’s 6 schools are its primary academic and research units, each with a clear
 disciplinary and research identity. The school structure has developed across the REF 2021
 period, moving away from a bipartite faculty system and equalising research cultures across
 previously less-developed disciplines. The Business School for the Creative Industries was
 created in 2018, and in summer 2019 the decision was taken to disestablish the School of
 Communication Design, with staff and courses in the area of games and narrative design moved
 into the School of Film, Media and Performing Arts, consolidating a developing research culture
 and research degree provision in that school. Staff and courses in the area of Graphics moved
 to the School of Fine Art, Photography and Visual Communication, joining an established and
 vigorous research culture and the University’s largest concentration of research degree
 students. Other schools have worked to develop and enhance their discipline and research
 cultures, with the appointment of new professors and readers (see REF5b) and the development
 of research degree infrastructures.

 (1.2.4) Several of UCA’s schools house research centres: the Crafts Study Centre (CSC) and
 the International Textiles Research Centre (ITRC) are the focus for research in the School of
 Crafts and Design and often work together on joint projects, for instance the 2017 conference
 Craft Connecting Architecture. The Centre for Sustainable Design is in the School of Business
 for the Creative Industries, and delivers a wide programme of research and events including the
 annual Sustainable Innovation conference. The Fine Art and Photography Research Centre is
 the focus for research in that school and encompasses research projects including Fast
 Forward: Women in Photography. The Animation Research Centre in the School of Film, Media
 and Performing Arts is focussed on extensive archive holdings and UCA’s history as home of the
 first UK higher education course in animation, founded by Bob Godfrey (creator of Roobarb and
 Custard). The University’s research centres are important in driving impact, with all 4 REF3 case
 studies submitted in REF 2021 based on a research centre, and 3 of the 4 building on previous
 REF 2014 impact case studies.

 (1.2.5) Research is a key component in the University’s identity as a leading provider of
 education in creative art and design and business for the creative industries. UCA’s research
 and researchers are recognised for their contributions to new knowledge, producing excellent
 outputs with impact (see REF2 and REF3) and providing leadership and advancing
 understanding in their disciplines and beyond. Details of indicators that evidence that
 contribution are discussed in full in REF5b.

 2. Strategy

 2.1 University Strategy

 (2.1.1) UCA’s overarching strategic aim is to be recognised as a global authority in the area of
 creative arts, creative technologies and business for the creative industries. In 2017 the
 University undertook a process of staff consultation to develop a new Strategic Vision, surfacing
 existing areas of excellence and planning for new opportunities and developments. The resulting
 2018-28 Strategic Plan sets out goals for success in existing and new areas. It is structured
 around 5 intersecting objectives:
     • developing the ‘business of creativity’

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   developing the University’s international presence and influence
    •   enhancing the University’s educational offer
    •   delivering a shared vision through high-performing teams
    •   achieving a financially robust and resilient business model.

 (2.1.2) These objectives drive the University’s development. Initial foundations and milestones
 have been achieved in, for instance, innovative new provision in business for the creative
 industries, with the opening of the Business School in 2018. The move towards a greater
 outward-looking global reach has been realised through strategic partnerships led by the
 development of the new Institute of Creative Innovation (ICI) with Xiamen University, China. The
 ICI campus in Xiamen was opened in September 2020 and offers courses in digital media
 technology, visual communication, advertising and environmental design. The University’s
 business model has been successful in ensuring resilience through the Coronavirus pandemic,
 and is generating resources to fund the development of new initiatives, including investment in
 new research areas and in research degrees.


 2.2 Research in the University Strategy

 (2.2.1) Research has a role to play in all 5 areas of the University Strategy: in developing the
 expertise and profile of staff; in attracting new partnerships and students; as part of the
 disciplinary development of the Business School for the Creative Industries; in forging
 international connections; and in continuing its long-established role in UCA’s educational offer,
 in which research is seen as a key skill and activity for students at all levels as well as for
 academic staff. The University’s Research Strategy was developed in 2018 in conjunction with
 the Strategic Plan and sits beneath it as a sub-strategy. Its key principles can be summarised
 briefly:
     • to grow excellence and intensity in research and impact, with an increasingly
          international outlook
     • to develop new discipline areas within the University’s subject-specialist focus
     • to develop PGR provision as part of the University’s research community
     • to contribute to the culture of enhancement in which staff excellence in research
          intersects with pedagogy and industry skills in the service of students, the University and
          wider society
     • to increase external funding and income.

 (2.2.2) This strategy is supported by relevant performance measures (Key Performance
 Indicators at University level and a more detailed set of school-based and Research Office
 measures). When measures were updated in 2020, a new policy on responsible research
 metrics was set out, based on key principles in The Metric Tide (2015) and on work by the
 Forum for Responsible Research Metrics.

 (2.2.3) REF5b assesses UCA’s past research strategy and many aspects of the current 2018-28
 research strategy, as these are best addressed within the context of UoA 32. REF5b also deals
 with the University’s approach to important issues such as Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity in
 research, research integrity and ethics, and open research, again within the context of the
 University’s single-unit submission. Here in REF5a the emphasis is on future developments in
 research, including the expansion of UCA’s research into new subject areas beyond UoA 32,
 and plans for research degree expansion and the achievement of research degree awarding
 powers.


 2.3 Future Developments

 (2.3.1) The opening of the Business School for the Creative Industries (BSCI) in 2018 saw UCA
 move into a new subject area (one that grows naturally from the entrepreneurial and business


                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 interests of many staff, students and courses across the University). In its early stages the focus
 of the BSCI was on establishing its teaching infrastructure and new BA and MA courses. From
 autumn 2020 onwards the school has started to develop its research infrastructure and systems.
 New staff joining in 2020 include a number of established and early career researchers, and
 while these staff joined after the REF 2021 census date, for the subsequent REF exercise the
 University will develop a submission to Unit 17. The school research plan includes aims and
 objectives for the identification of new research areas/focus within that unit, the scoping of new
 research centres, planning for impact and environment, career development and research
 planning for staff, recruitment of new researchers and research leaders, and continued
 development of PGR provision.

 (2.3.2) UCA’s School of Architecture has to date submitted its research to UoA 32. For the
 subsequent REF exercise the University is scoping a separate submission to UoA 13, with
 investment in staff and infrastructure to continue development of research in architectural
 design, the architectural humanities and spatial technologies.

 (2.3.3) These new subject areas will sit alongside development in those areas of the University’s
 research activity that sit within UoA 32. The research strategy of the School of Fashion is built
 upon the productive overlap between fashion research, textiles research and external
 knowledge-exchange opportunities. In 2021 the school will be renamed School of Fashion and
 Textiles, and the International Textiles Research Centre will move into the School from the
 School of Crafts and Design. While maintaining its links to the crafts subject area, the ITRC will
 provide a focus for the existing highly successful pedagogy and practice in the School of
 Fashion to develop into an energetic research culture across fashion and textiles.

 (2.3.4) The Strategic Plan of 2018-28 provides for a comprehensive review of the University’s
 course portfolio, and this has been actively progressed since autumn 2019, in the form of a new
 Academic Plan. As part of this, work is being undertaken to identify key areas of distinction for
 the University, located at the intersection of pedagogic excellence and reputation, research
 expertise, knowledge exchange and external engagement. These areas will be supported with
 investment.

 (2.3.5) UCA is also pursuing important developments in research degree provision. UCA’s
 history of research degrees goes back to the early 2000s, and it is a leading provider of practice-
 based PhDs, with particular expertise in craft practice, photography, and fine art. To date the
 University has awarded degrees through external validating partners, previously the Universities
 of Kent and Brighton, and currently University of the Arts London. Planned application for
 research degree awarding powers (RDAP) was delayed by regulatory change in 2017-19 (HERA
 and the creation of OfS), however in 2020 the University submitted its RDAP application and
 (after a further delay caused by COVID-19) this is now undergoing scrutiny by the Quality
 Assurance Agency (QAA).

 (2.3.6) The achievement of RDAP will be a springboard for the University to grow substantially
 its PGR community, including in the new business and architecture subject areas discussed
 above. The creation of a Doctoral College to provide strengthened centralised support and
 monitoring structures for students and supervisors located in the schools is under way, and the
 University is now able to provide a number of competitively-awarded studentships (fees and
 maintenance) at PGR level, building on a longstanding fee-waiver programme. The goal is to
 achieve research council block-grant funding, with achievement of RDAP an important stepping-
 stone towards this. The PGR community is growing (both students and supervisors, see
 REF5b), and this is forecast to continue.

 (2.3.7) All these future developments will necessitate increased research intensity at the
 University, with the proportion of staff with significant responsibility for research planned to
 increase above its current level of 27 per cent (FTE). The University’s key performance
 indicators, formerly shaped to REF 2021 and the University’s application for Research Degree


                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Awarding Powers, have in 2020 been reformulated to provide staged targets and measures for
 all areas of the Research Strategy.

 (2.3.8) See the COVID-19 Annex for a commentary on the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic
 on future planning for research at UCA.
 3. People

 (3.1) Staffing strategy and staff development specifically for research is dealt with fully in REF5b,
 where the University’s approach to ‘significant responsibility’ processes and to EDI in research are
 also described. REF5b also presents data on the proportion of ECRs in our submission and the
 profile of submitted staff according to contract type, disability, gender and ethnicity. This section of
 REF5a provides a brief overview of the University’s overarching ‘People’ strategy and policies, as
 context to the research-specific data in REF5a.

 (3.2) The University for the Creative Arts recognizes, values and supports the achievements of staff.
 At the REF 2021 census date (and beyond it) two specific areas of focus are High Performing Teams
 and Inclusivity and Diversity.

 (3.3) High Performing Teams: UCA recognises that there is an important set of skills, experience and
 competencies required to successfully lead and manage a team and that there is a need to invest
 time and support in effectively managing people. The University is rolling out an initiative to provide
 greater clarity to leaders and managers on the expectations of people management, coupled with the
 provision of a development programme focused on the key competencies.

 (3.4) In 2020/21 the University reviewed our approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and now
 takes Equality & Diversity and Diversity & Inclusion as two distinct areas for review and development.
 Equality & Diversity relates to analysis of staff diversity and recruitment in relation to the protected
 characteristics defined by the Equality Act 2010, our analysis of pay gaps, and our recommendations
 for changes in policy and practice to achieve diversity targets. Annual review of this data indicates
 that we continue to attract applications from diverse candidates. In the latest data around 20 per cent
 of applications were from BAME candidates and selection was proportionate across the equalities
 groups. The diversity of our staff increased in the last reporting year, however for some categories of
 ‘hidden’ difference we continue to have high levels of non-declaration.

 (3.5) Diversity & Inclusion relates to the University’s strategy toward achieving an inclusive culture
 including:
     • Inclusive Community
     • Inclusive Teaching Practice
     • Inclusive Recruitment
 A new Diversity & Inclusion strategy is in development for implementation in 2021/22, with a
 range of interventions which will include developing a positive culture around reporting and
 resolving conflict and enhancing the range and type of networks available for staff and students.
 The University will continue work already underway on developing Inclusive Teaching Practice,
 with a particular emphasis on the internationalisation aspects of this work, and will further embed
 inclusive recruitment. UCA has been in consultation with Advance HE to develop a Race
 Equality Charter for small and specialist institutions, and we look forward to the result of the
 consultation in hope of signing up to this Charter.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 (4.1) Research income and the support infrastructures and activities for researchers (the
 university’s primary research resource) are dealt with fully in REF5b. This section provides a
 brief overview of technical facilities and resources. These serve UCA’s UG and PGT students
 and pedagogic mission as well as staff and PGR researchers.

 (4.2) These facilities support research, creative practice and scholarship across the full spectrum
 of arts, design, media and craft and encompass traditional, analogue, emerging, digital, and
 interdisciplinary approaches. All four campuses provide extensive studio production spaces,

                                                                                                   Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 photography studios, IT labs with Macs and PCs running the latest industry-standard software,
 Print Bureaus for reprographics, laser cutters, 3D prototyping resources, printmaking studios,
 workshops, art shops, and equipment hire departments. In addition each campus has specialist
 facilities shaped to sub-disciplines of art and design. Examples are the Digital Fabrication Lab
 and sculpture studios at Canterbury; the facilities for traditional oil-based print, including intaglio,
 relief, and hot metal letterpress at Epsom; the film soundstages, industry-standard Avid post-
 production suites and computer games labs (with graduate incubator) at Farnham; and fashion
 textiles digital printing and silk screen printing resources at Rochester. Indicative detailed
 examples are the Ceramics department and Film and Media Centre at Farnham.

 (4.3) Since 2019, approximately £300,000 of capital investment has modernised the ceramics
 area at Farnham, serving both traditional techniques and new technologies and ensuring that
 both the equipment and environment support multidisciplinary approaches to thinking and
 making through materiality. The refurbished kiln room houses four gas kilns and fifteen electric
 kilns. A wet back spray booth is situated in the glaze technology lab; adjacent is a suite of
 Shimpo throwing wheels with these facilities complimented by digital equipment, namely two
 Wasp 3D printers for clay. Pug mills are used to recycle clay and blungers to make in-house
 slips for slip casting. A plaster and mould-making facility supports the production of moulds, and
 a jigger jolly machine enables batch production.

 (4.4) The 1,000 m² Film and Media Centre at Farnham was opened in 2019, costing
 approximately £6 million (build cost) with a further £1 million on technical equipment. The
 building accommodates student and staff enquiry in performing arts, film studies, and music
 composition & technology with a wide range of cutting-edge technological equipment. Facilities
 include a black-box film studio, performance spaces, and an acoustically sealed recording studio
 featuring a live room, dubbing theatre, and control room.




                                                                                                   Page 6
