Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: London Business School
 1. Context and mission

London Business School is an independent post-graduate business School located in London,
with a campus in Dubai, UAE. It delivers a London experience with a global approach and externally
verified excellence – it is consistently ranked as one of the world’s top tier business schools. The
School’s reputation is founded on the rigour and excellence of its academic research and teaching.

Vision: To have a profound impact on the way the world does business and the way business
impacts the world.

London Business School is a global community of academics, henceforth called faculty, staff,
students, participants, clients, friends, with lifelong membership offered to tenured faculty and
alumni. During the review period the School has undergone one change of Dean (2017) who has
rearticulated both the vision and the research strategy. The vision has been extended to include ‘and
the way business impacts the world’ to reflect the School’s ambition of research with social impact
and specifically to refocus our impact strategy, taking it from engagement to impact generation, as
recommended in the REF14. In order to fulfil its vision, the School engages in research, inspires
learning, and convenes influencers.

The School pro-actively fosters a research culture that is innovative, rigorous and relevant, and all
research faculty are expected to conduct high quality research of international standing and publish
in top journals. Journal articles are categorised into four types and which largely overlap with the
most highly rated ABS list of journals: Top-tier academic journals (A); top discipline journals (D);
other high-quality journals (Q) and practitioner journals (P). Other outputs include working papers,
books/scholarly monographs, and book chapters. The School values the publication of books and
the impact these have in the realisation of the School’s vision as illustrated in Cable’s case study.
The School’s research performance in the FT’s global MBA rankings remains strong (11th place in
2020).

Although research publications are the chief measure of research performance, there are a number
of other external indicators of success which include: (i) success in obtaining research funding; (ii)
taking on the editorship of leading journals; and (iii) recognition from the top academic bodies, e.g.
the British Academy and subject academies such as the Strategic Management Society.

The School’s strategy as outlined in the REF14 is for faculty to be among the world’s leaders in terms
of the quality and impact of their research which drives our people strategy. All researchers – faculty
and PhD students - are part of one of the seven subject areas, namely Accounting, Economics,
Finance, Management Science and Operations (MSO), Marketing, Organisational Behaviour (OB),
and Strategy and Entrepreneurship (SE) which are led by a full professor on a three-year rotational
basis. The research excellence of our faculty fuels all research and impact activities at the School
such as Research Centres and Institutes (RCIs), teaching and outreach activities. The School’s
governance and committee structure are key enablers of our strategy.

1.1.   Research Centres and Institutes
The School has five Research Centres and Institutes which provide a framework to facilitate
collaboration between faculty within and across subject areas with the aim of further using research
to impact business, in line with the School’s overarching strategy. They explore key global business
issues and attract significant research funding from a variety of sources including Research Councils,
Charitable Foundations, companies and philanthropists. They provide a way of supporting and
showcasing research to capture the attention of and have an influence on business leaders and
managers, public policymakers and other researchers worldwide.

Research Centres and Institutes are dynamic hubs with senior faculty leadership and participation
from faculty and PhD students. These typically grow from the convergence of research interests of



                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
faculty and current business needs galvanising the School’s research community into concerted
action.

They are monitored annually by the Research Centre Review Committee (see below) which reviews
their performance in terms of research outputs, outreach, media and social presence and evidence
of recognition. As a testament to the RCIs dynamism and agility, during the period under review, the
School has opened three new institutes and is considering one merger. Anchored around core
research competencies within the School, the Research Centres and Institutes continue to
strengthen engagement with the academic and business communities, with an emphasis on
enhancing the funding, production and dissemination of academic research as well as supporting
selected student learning experiences.

1.2.   Programmes
The School offers a rich portfolio of post-graduate degree programmes, strongly anchored in
academic research, to suit students and executives at every stage of their careers, including a PhD
programme and short Executive Education programmes. The School delivers its programmes in four
world centres: London, Hong Kong, New York and Dubai where it has a permanent centre with
access to facilities in the Dubai International Finance Centre.

Faculty teaching in Dubai are chosen from the same pool of faculty as in London and all learning
outcomes are decided by the respective Subject Areas, regardless of campus location. Both degree
and executive programmes are led by an Associate Dean who, in conjunction with the Deputy Dean
(Programmes) and Faculty Director (Executive Education), respectively, are responsible for
programme design, syllabi and all other matters of academic policy related to the programmes. The
Deputy Dean, Faculty Director, and PhD Programme Chair roles are served by full professors,
typically on a 3-year rotation basis.

The School is highly international and has achieved global reach through the development of a series
of strategic alliances in key parts of the world. The School has strong business connections which
have been maintained and strengthened through a range of mechanisms including corporate
representation on the Governing Body, its executive education programmes, the alumni network and
faculty activities.

1.3.    Internal governance
The School has a strong governance structure in place to support the realisation of its vision and
key strategies. Faculty membership is central in all strategy and academic decision-making bodies,
firmly placing excellence in research and teaching at the core of all decisions.

Internal management is overseen by two key decision-making bodies, the Management Board and
the Governing Body. The former advises the Dean and the Governing Body on issues related to the
development and implementation of major School policies such as changes affecting programmes
and research activities, faculty, staff, premises and finance. Core membership comprises the Dean
(Chair) the Deputy Deans, the Associate Deans, the School Secretary, the Chair of the PhD
Programme, the Chief People Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Research and Faculty Office
Director and the seven Subject Area Chairs.

The Governing Body’s membership ensures an appropriate balance of individuals with a range of
expertise. The role of the Governing Body is to govern, manage and regulate the finances, accounts,
investments, property, business and all other affairs of the School. Academic expertise from
members of faculty and the Dean help guide the policies and strategic planning of the School, both
in London and Dubai.

The School operates a Faculty Board which acts as the main sounding board for plans developed
by Management Board. Meetings of the Faculty Board provide the School with an opportunity to
provide faculty with information and consult them about the business of the School. Faculty advise
and/or decide on faculty recruitment matters via participation in the Appointments Committee and
the Appointments Sub-Committee. Their function is to help ensure that the School maintains the

                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
highest professional standards by employing and promoting only the very best academics.
Appointments committee consists of all tenured faculty and mainly decides on tenured and full
professor appointments, promotions and performance reviews. Unlike the full Appointments
Committee, which is attended by all tenured Faculty, the Sub Appointments Committee consists of
four to five tenured Faculty, chaired by the Deputy Dean (Faculty) and has the delegated authority
of the full Appointments Committee to decide on the appointment of Assistant Professors, untenured
Associate Professors, research support faculty, awarding titles to Affiliated faculty, the appointment
of Visiting faculty and appointment of performance review committees.

All fundamental academic or constitutional decisions are taken by the Management Board. The
responsibility for taking and implementing administrative decisions on the management of the School
falls to the Senior Management Team, supported by Management Committee.

The School has two formal mechanisms to help shape and deliver its inclusion and diversity agenda
- the Inclusion and Diversity Advisory Committee and the Inclusion and Diversity Steering Group.
The Committee is made up of representatives from across the School who seek input and feedback
on inclusion and diversity matters, work to create change and monitor progress. The Steering Group
includes key stake holders with executive responsibility for inclusion and belonging within their areas.
It connects with the Committee and acts as an integrating body. Recent events have galvanised the
School community resulting in a renewed commitment towards racial equality.

1.4.    Committees supporting research
In support of its research agenda, the School operates two committees: (i) the Research Ethics
Committee and (ii) the Research Centres Review Committee. The Research Ethics Committee
was created in 2010 to ensure research involving human participants and/or the use of personal data
at the School – whether undertaken by faculty, staff or student researchers – conforms with the law
and in accordance with best practice. It was created as a result of the growth in behavioural
researchers needing their own apparatus for ethical reviews and approvals. At the same time the
School reviewed and updated its research ethics policy, a code of practice for research and
procedures for the investigation into allegations of research misconduct. The Research Ethics
Committee and the associated policies and procedures conform to Economic and Social Research
Council (ESRC) and UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) guidelines for the establishment of
research ethics committees within a school setting and the practice of good research conduct.

The Research Centre Review Committee monitors the research activities of the Research Centres
and Institutes. It is chaired by the Deputy Dean (Faculty) and comprises three Subject Area Chairs,
the Director of Research and Faculty Office, the Associate Dean of Advancement, the Chief
Marketing Officer and the Director of Finance. The Committee provides oversight of the range, scale
and productivity of the Research Centres and Institutes within the School. It is also responsible for
helping to identify and prioritise the School’s research, teaching and outreach fundraising objectives,
and making proposals for improvements. It is a sub-committee of the Management Board (see
below).

 2. Strategy



2.1.     Research Strategy
The School’s research strategy is to undertake top quality research that will influence business
leaders and managers, public policymakers and other researchers worldwide. Since the last review,
the School has made good progress in the stated three areas of focus: (i) achieving critical mass in
six out of seven subject areas through recruitment and retention strategies; (ii) securing more internal
and external funding opportunities through grant application and RCIs funding; (iii) supporting cross-
disciplinary research such as RCIs activities which target research production and dissemination at
individual faculty level as well as collaborative endeavours. The latter area of focus is in line with the
REF14 recommendation of more evidence of collaboration and inter-disciplinary work.


                                                                                                  Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
The School’s faculty, under the leadership of the Deputy Dean (Faculty) and the seven Subject Area
Chairs, are collectively responsible for achieving the research strategy. Our governance structure
supports this and performance against key metrics, including research outputs by journal type (A, D,
Q and P) and grant applications by subject area are reported to Management Board and Governing
Body annually. The Deputy Dean (Faculty) also provides Governing Body with an annual update.

The people strategy is a strong enabler of the research strategy and attracting/retaining top
researchers is a key priority which is complemented by a School-wide focus on inclusion. Targeted
efforts will aim to increase the gender and racial diversity of the faculty and student population,
mindful of opportunities to enhance the socioeconomic and ethnic diversity of the whole community.

The School develops a detailed plan to ensure that faculty are engaged in research and/or scholarly
activity: all core faculty are required to be research-active, to publish their research in the top
academic journals in their field (A, D, Q and P), and for their research to have impact on the relevant
practitioner community. The School has established a clear set of procedures for securing research
support which are managed by the research support team who shares all research funding
opportunities through the publication of an online newsletter.

Part of the School’s research strategy is the developing and nurturing of early career researchers –
“tenure-track” faculty and PhD students. Faculty are strongly committed to building the next
generation of researchers and mentoring and supervision programmes are in place. The School has
an inclusive and collegial environment where all researchers, independent of their career stage, can
access and participate in research activities and opportunities.


2.2.     Impact Strategy
The School’s foremost impact derives from its research strategy and faculty’s contribution to the
disciplines. Recognising this, the School has strengthened its commitment with regards to global
impact when rearticulating its vision in 2017: (i) impact on the way the world does business; and (ii)
how business impacts the world. The former is core to our strategic positioning as a world leader in
business education rooted in top academic research, including highly awarded books, and
disseminated through our programmes, faculty outreach and consultancy activities. The latter is an
ambition to produce research with global social impact which can be seen in the work of RCIs, faculty
research, and media coverage where faculty facilitate transformative journeys for individuals,
governments and companies. Over the coming years, the School will multiply its impact by
transforming its learning experiences into ongoing journeys anchored in academic research, bringing
together more diverse individuals, in an international environment that is rigorous, open, curious and
inspiring.

The School has committed to embed impact in all aspects of its activities by having a highly selective
recruitment and promotion process for faculty and PhD students focusing on research excellence
and future impact; valuing a diverse range of outputs targeting research and practitioners’
communities; using teaching as a dissemination channel; and monitoring and supporting the breadth
of research and outreach activities of RCIs, including business partnerships.

During the 2019-20 academic year, the School pursued the following priorities:
      • Harnessing the power of digital - updating of london.edu and critical elements of the
          School’s digital infrastructure, new investments focusing on improving customer
          acquisition (students, participants and clients)
      • Increasing its relevance globally - working towards gaining UAE Ministry of Education
          accreditation following ongoing changes in UAE regulations.

The continuing goal of the School’s knowledge exchange strategy is to contribute to the realisation
of its vision through the dissemination of the research and thought leadership of its faculty in the field
of business studies. Despite having a wide international impact focus, the School also aims to have
a profound impact on its local community through activities designed to address low levels of
education and related employment choices. Working in partnership with local and national charities,

                                                                                                  Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
it organises a series of initiatives to provide volunteering opportunities for employees and students
to take part in local community activities with a positive social and environmental impact.

 3. People


The School’s people strategy is strongly rooted in subject areas having sufficient tenured/tenure-
track faculty to support a vibrant research environment where the breadth and depth of disciplines
are key contributors to the School’s vision and market position.

Faculty at the school consist of:
   (a) “Tenured” and “tenure-track” faculty, who are required to conduct and publish research
       in leading academic journals, and to perform to a high standard on teaching, internal
       contribution and external visibility. Faculty are typically promoted to Associate Professor with
       Tenure in their seventh year at the School if they meet the School’s standards in the areas
       mentioned above. In considering individuals for promotion to tenure, the School requires
       external letters of reference from senior faculty of international standing in their field. The
       promotion to Full Professor is also merit-based and typically occurs about five years after
       tenure.
   (b) Management practice faculty, approximately 5fte of core faculty, who are focused on
       changing the intellectual agenda in the practitioner community, through well regarded
       practitioner journals, books, and talks, while maintaining a research basis. They are also
       expected to perform to a high standard on teaching, internal contribution and external
       visibility.
   (c) Affiliated faculty who work part-time at the School and complement the teaching of tenured
       and tenure-track faculty in areas where they have particular expertise. These faculty are not
       required to do research. In addition, many of them also play an important role in the School’s
       advancement initiatives and externally facing activities.
   (d) Research support posts, namely Research Assistants and Research Fellows, who have no
       teaching obligations. The former support faculty in delivering their research whereas the latter
       are PhD qualified and expected to conduct original investigations in their chosen field to
       advance the state of knowledge, to stimulate the development of theory and/or to enable
       practice to be more effective/efficient. Research Fellows qualify for REF21 submission.

The faculty in groups (a) and (b) are also referred to as “core” faculty.

The School recognises the importance of and strives to retain and recruit a diverse community which
reflects its international positioning and student composition. Recognising the challenges of
achieving this diversity whilst recruiting in small numbers, the School has put in place strategies to
grow the proportion of women faculty as well as other minority groups, as described in 5b, section
2. In addition, the School has revised its policies to support equality and diversity at key stages of
the faculty lifecycle.

The School’s commitment to equality and diversity extend to all aspects of the School’s activities,
including research assessment exercises such as the current REF21. As set out on the Code of
Practice, measures were taken to ensure fairness and transparency in this process. All faculty and
PhD students abide by the principles set out in the revised concordat to support research integrity
which align with the principles of the Research Ethics Committee.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities


The School recognises the importance of healthy and sustainable levels of research funding to foster
and maintain the research culture that is fundamental in achieving the School’s vision. As such, a
significant amount of the School’s funds is invested in supporting faculty research. Most decisions
regarding awards are based on merit alone and subject area chairs are involved in this process. The

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
School, as stated before, strives to ensure all faculty have access to resources needed for them to
succeed in their careers such as access to library resources and datasets, research laboratory
facilities or access to external research funding. For the latter, faculty count on the support of the
Research Support Team. European Research Council grant applications have been particularly
successful during the period under review, attesting to the success of our people and research
strategies.

Strategically, the School intends to continue to build on its external funding portfolio and in particular
maintain its success in the prestigious ERC scheme and other opportunities of interest to faculty,
under the new Horizon Europe programme. The School will also focus on understanding and
working with UKRI on their Strategic Roadmap to support research and the social science discipline
– including any interdisciplinary agendas - strategic initiatives which support the School’s research
and impact agenda as we transition into the future funding landscape.
In order to realise its vision, the School has developed a financial strategy to provide a sustainable
funding model which incorporates targeting cash operating surpluses and comprehensive
fundraising to support enhanced quality in delivery, including investment in IT systems and
infrastructure. Compared with most Schools in the UK, the School receives comparatively little
government funding, contributing only around 6% of total revenues (2019-20). The School generates
most of its income from non-government sources – mainly programme fees (about 80%), which it
sets by taking account of both its financial needs and the levels set by its main competitors. The
other sources of income are research grants and gifts from alumni, friends and corporate supporters
(2019-20).




                                                                                                  Page 6
