Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Newman University

 1. Context and mission

 Mission

 The mission of Newman University is to make a transformational impact to individuals and
 communities through the distinctive contribution of its staff, students, and graduates, producing
 research and scholarship of benefit to society and providing high-quality, accessible academic
 and professional education based on social justice and equality. Our aim has been and will
 remain to be recognised nationally and internationally for the integrity, benefit, and quality of our
 research and scholarship, making a positive difference to society across the social sciences,
 arts, humanities and education.

 The University

 Situated on the south-western edge of Birmingham, Newman is a small Catholic university with
 approximately 350 staff and 2,800 students, including over 40 research students spread across
 MPhil, PhD and EdD programmes. Our undergraduate and postgraduate students are
 predominantly drawn from the local area, with a very high proportion of commuter students. We
 consistently exceed sector averages for recruitment from under-represented and disadvantaged
 groups including mature students, disabled students, students from low-participation
 neighbourhoods and first generation HE students. People from under-represented groups make
 up the large majority of our student population and we are proud of our distinctiveness, our
 commitment to social justice, and our contribution as a community university to local, regional
 and national research agenda, from social mobility to research excellence.

 Academic Structure

 Newman was founded as a teacher-training College in 1968 and became a University in 2013.
 Since its inception Newman has expanded from a purely teaching-oriented institution to one
 that focuses on both teaching and research across a much broader social science, professional,
 and arts & humanities provision. In 2020, the University is organised into two faculties: the
 Faculty of Education, and the Faculty of Arts, Society, and Professional Studies. Research is
 embedded at subject-level and supported by research groups and Centres across the
 Institution. Currently, Newman has six research centres: the Children, Young People and
 Family Research Centre; the Romero Freire Institute: Dialogue, Pedagogy and Praxis; the
 Humanities Research Centre; the Newman Research Centre for the Bible and its Reception, the
 Sport, Physical Activity and Health Research Centre; and NILE – the Newman Institute for
 Leadership in Education. Our institutional research focus is on social impact for the public good
 as outlined in the section on strategy below.

 Research at Newman

 Combined with our significant investment in academic staffing, we see our modest size as a
 benefit in allowing us to support high-quality research leading to successful dissemination and
 publication. In REF2014, our outputs were commendably rated: in the Table of Excellence
 produced by the Times Higher for Research Outputs, Newman appeared at 89th place
 nationally, above many institutions who would see themselves as research-led. As a small
 teaching-led university, we do not have an extensive research infrastructure or the economies
 of scale of larger institutions but all academic staff are on teaching and research contracts and
 engage in advanced scholarship and/or peer reviewed research. Of these 129 academic staff at
 the time of the Census for the REF, 59 had a significant responsibility for research. As a small
 institution, our research environment is largely centralised, working in conjunctions with subjects
 and Faculties in a hub and spoke model to make the most productive use of time and
 resources.


                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 REF2014

 In the last research assessment exercise, REF 2014, Newman University entered 25 staff
 across six Units of Assessment: Psychology, Education, Sport & Exercise Sciences, English
 Language & Literature, History, and Theology & Religious Studies. All six Units were identified
 as having a percentage of internationally excellent (3*) work, and half were also identified as
 having a percentage of 4* world-leading research. The three Units Newman entered in
 RAE2008, Education, Sport and History, all improved significantly on their results in the 2014
 research exercise. While participating in a selective exercise in REF2014, we consider it
 important that all our Units included Early Career Researchers as defined by the REF. This
 development of research capacity continues with our submission to REF 2021, which now
 includes all academic staff with a significant responsibility for research and so is expanded to
 over twice the size in number of researchers returned.

 Research Aims

 The University’s overarching research aim in the next few years is to achieve Research Degree
 Awarding Powers (RDAP). In this regard, Newman has worked well with its validating partner,
 Liverpool Hope University, to progress the number of successful research degree completions
 over the REF period. The University has more than doubled its total number of successful
 completions in this time and is looking to attain the required number of completions (30+) in the
 next year. An inclusive and equitable approach to staff scholarly development has underpinned
 the wider context of the University’s research strategy, policies, and environment, as outlined in
 the remainder of this document.


 2. Strategy

 As a Catholic University, Newman’s Strategy for Research begins with an extract from Ex
 Corde Ecclesiae, 15 August 1990: “The basic mission of a University is a continuous quest for
 truth through its research, and the preservation and communication of knowledge for the good
 of society.” Our research, whether foundational, applied or user-defined, is underpinned by a
 common aim to make an impact in society, contributing to social justice, education, health and
 well-being, to scientific, human, and cultural understanding, and to the sum of knowledge.

 This has been our abiding objective and Newman places research and scholarship at the heart
 of the University’s life and its contribution to society. The University’s strategy for research has
 four pillars for growth: Postgraduate Research; Staff Research and REF Engagement;
 Scholarship and RDAP; Enterprise and Income.

 Strategic Theme 1: Postgraduate Research

 Our objectives in this area are to:

 1.1    Grow research student numbers and timely completions
 1.2    Expand research supervisory experience alongside a programme of training and
        development for supervisors and students
 1.3    Build our capacity to apply for research degree awarding powers
 1.4    Sustain an appropriate environment to attract high-quality researchers and postgraduate
        students.

 Strategic Theme 2: Staff Research and REF

 Our objectives in this area are to:

 2.1    Plan for an increased number of staff submitted to the next Research Excellence
        Framework

                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.2    Expand academic leadership through the appointment of Professors and Readers
 2.3    Grow new researchers and sustainable, successful research centres through strategic
        investment and targeted support
 2.4    Nourish our research culture by protecting research time, mentoring early-career
        researchers and recognising research achievement
 2.5    Encourage engagement in collaborative research, advanced scholarship, and external
        research partnerships to build research capacity
 2.6    Attract and retain academic and professional support staff who will help us to achieve a
        mature, self-sustaining research base.

 Strategic Theme 3: Scholarship and RDAP

 Our objectives in this area are to:

 3.1    Promote dialogue about academic identity and the development of shared
        understandings about the nature of scholarship, including broad engagement with
        appropriate researcher development frameworks
 3.2    Encourage the development of externality in research and scholarship; through
        contributions to subject associations, learned societies, relevant professional bodies and
        the research infrastructure of Higher Education
 3.3    Stimulate the scholarships of discovery, integration, application and teaching, leading to
        the production of relevant public outputs
 3.4    Deliver research-informed-teaching and practice to the benefit of students
 3.5    Engage with and promote students as researchers, co-producers and partners in
        scholarship at all levels of study
 3.6    Provide staff development and support, primarily through the Graduate School and
        Academic Practice Unit, for the development of scholarly practices, academic writing
        and public engagement
 3.7    Grow a learning community which values, rewards and celebrates those who lead and
        engage with research and advanced scholarship for the common good.

 Strategic Theme 4: Enterprise and Income

 Our objectives in this area are to:

 4.1    Increase externally-funded research and evaluation projects, independently and in
        collaboration with partners in the UK and overseas
 4.2    Grow academic capacity to develop enterprise and third-stream work
 4.3    Promote research and scholarship which has demonstrable impact on the public good
 4.4    Foster activity in social entrepreneurship and in supporting staff and students to develop
        successful social ventures and enterprises in partnership with others
 4.5    Collaborate with external organizations and our alumni to develop our ability to offer
        excellent diverse opportunities for work placements, school experience and professional
        practice
 4.6    Nurture staff and student civic involvement to develop varied community engagement
        activities promoting student learning from real-world challenges and also to engage the
        community in the benefits of Higher Education.

 An emphasis on social enterprise is seen as particularly important to enable staff and students
 to work collaboratively to tackle societal challenges and improve communities. We build our
 work as active members of key external partnership organisations and networks to ensure our
 contribution in the local, regional, national and international communities are known,
 understood, and appropriately valued. In 2020 Newman submitted to the Knowledge Exchange
 Framework, signed up to the principles of the Knowledge Exchange Concordat, and committed
 to participation in the Knowledge Exchange Concordat development year. Newman has for
 several years carried the Social Enterprise Mark to underpin the socially engaged nature of its
 research and its approach to knowledge exchange.

                                                                                            Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Implementation

 A Newman University Research Strategy Action Plan for the implementation of these objectives
 is reviewed annually and considered in relation to global, national, and regional priorities such
 as the United Nations sustainable development goals, the UK Industrial Strategy 2017-20, and
 the Midlands Engine. The plan is focused on staff formation around advanced scholarship and
 on the indicators that contribute to achieving the overarching goal of RDAP as recognition of the
 University having successfully established a mature, self-sustaining research base at Newman.
 In terms of our promotion of sector-wide responsibilities, we work productively with the research
 arm of our mission group, GuildHE Research. Formerly CREST, GuildHE Research is the
 research consortium for smaller and specialist higher education institutions to promote and
 advocate for the recognition and support of excellent research wherever it is found.

 Integrity, Ethics, and Open Research

 As part of GuildHE Research we contributed to the Vitae (in partnership with UKRIO) research
 integrity landscape study commissioned by UKRI in 2019. The University subscribes to the five
 commitments for those engaged in research and is committed to the principles proposed in the
 2019 revised version of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity:

 1. upholding the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of research
 2. ensuring that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards
 3. supporting a research environment that is underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on
 good governance, best practice and support for the development of researchers
 4. using transparent, timely, robust and fair processes to deal with allegations of research
 misconduct should they arise
 5. working together to strengthen the integrity of research and to review progress regularly and
 openly

 At Newman, matters of staff and student research ethics and integrity are overseen by the
 Research Ethics Committee, which scrutinizes several hundred research proposals each year.
 All researchers are subject to the University’s Code of Practice for Research, which provides a
 framework for the governance of all research throughout Newman University.i As noted in the
 Code, the University promotes Open Research and favours green publication; it is working
 towards compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data at institution level. Newman
 also supports the 2020 UKRI Open Access Review on the future of Open access post-
 REF2014. As part of the GuildHE Research Consortium we subscribe to an EPrints Open
 Repository. The University has also contributed to focus groups on the developing plans for a
 shared service repository for outputs, and attended pilot meetings. In order for work to be
 considered as part of the next REF, staff are required to deposit all journal articles and
 published conference papers in an institutional repository, or alternative, with an acceptable
 embargo period and within an acceptable length of time after it is accepted for publication. The
 University maintains a central fund and application process to support publication in journals
 that charge Article Processing Charges to publish articles through the gold open access route
 with no embargo period.

 Interdisciplinary Research Centres

 Our six research centres support and facilitate interdisciplinary research across the humanities
 and social sciences. For example, the Humanities Research Centre brings together colleagues
 from Theology, History, Drama and English Studies to work on projects that range from funding
 bids to impact projects, pooling resources and staff expertise to support joint conferences,
 seminar series, and postgraduate research. The University also supports cross-disciplinary
 work across Faculties, as reflected in the UoA submissions by the work of various research
 centres, such as the Centre for Sport, Physical Activity and Health, the Newman Institute for

                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Leadership in Education, and the Children, Young People and Families Research Centre.


 Impact

 Our strategy for Impact has emphasized place. As a University whose students and
 stakeholders are largely drawn from the areas neighbouring the campus, our approach has
 been to encourage and support staff to work in partnership with local and regional schools,
 charities, companies, and organisations. This is reflected in our Impact case studies alongside
 the wider commitment to promote research that makes a positive difference in society, whether
 locally, regionally, or beyond.

 Looking Forward

 Within a context of equal opportunities and research integrity, our ongoing research strategy in
 the coming five-year period 2021-2025 will seek to further cultivate our researcher base, target
 enhancement of our research environment to support an application for Research Degree
 Awarding Powers, ensure adherence to the Concordat for Research integrity, work towards
 100% Open Research compliance, and nurture the further development of interdisciplinary
 research at the University.

 3. People

 Our staffing strategy in the census period has been underpinned by our REF Code of Practice,
 guided by the University’s Human Resources (HR) policies and People Strategy (2015-2020).
 All academic staff at Newman are on teaching and research contracts: all have a responsibility
 for research, broadly defined, with those who have a significant responsibility for research
 submitted to the REF. All academic staff are expected to be engaged in some measure of
 research, scholarship, or practice.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion

 As detailed in the University’s Code of Practice, equality, diversity and inclusion at Newman is
 overseen by the Equality and Diversity Committee, Chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, which
 reports to Senate. The development of the Code was reviewed by the Equality and Diversity
 Committee in April 2019, and recommendations for enhancements incorporated prior to
 submission. Consultation was also undertaken in 2019 with Units of Assessment, Human
 Resources, Unions, and members of the Research Committee, leading to revisions and
 iterations of the Code. Sign-off of the Code and its processes, including evidence of
 consultation, was made by Senate. The processes in the Code promote inclusivity such that the
 principles governing the Code are consistent across the University, with no exceptions and no
 variations across Units of Assessment. Ultimate responsibility for the REF process sits with the
 Deputy Vice-Chancellor, while key responsibilities also sit with designated Unit of Assessment
 Coordinators, the Research Committees, the appeals panel, and staff identified in this Code.

 The University is keen to develop further its research-support infrastructure and promote its
 commitment to equality through the pursuit of external accreditations. As a medium-term goal,
 the University intends to work towards an application for an Athena Bronze award and
 subsequently the Race Equality Charter Mark.

 Readers and Professors

 In terms of senior research appointments, the University runs a biennial readers and professors
 application round open to all academic staff and specifically welcoming of a diverse range of
 applications. An Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) is run after each biennial round and each
 meeting of the annual pay grade gateway review. The University places equality at the heart of
 promotion processes and its readers and professors application criteria and procedure were

                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 reviewed and approved at its Equality and Diversity Committee. Newman currently has a 50:50
 split of male (3) and female (3) professors at the end of 2020 following appointments made in
 the latest appointment round. Senior management posts in the University (Deans and senior
 postholders) are ethnically diverse and the University wishes to see this reflected in the
 professoriate.

 Promotion of Staff Scholarship

 The University expects all academic staff to engage in scholarship and to be scholarly in their
 practices. At Newman, this means that scholarship is purposeful, well-founded and
 appropriately conducted; it may involve knowledge creation, integration, sharing or application,
 as well as the development of ways of knowing in others. Such scholarship produces
 meaningful results which are communicated effectively and may issue in research publication
 but equally may find expression in other disseminated outputs and forms of public engagement.
 The Graduate School and Learning, Teaching and Scholarship Directorate (formerly Academic
 Practice Unit) work with staff and students to promote scholarship, researcher development and
 the exploration of academic identities. Engagement with emerging professional researcher
 frameworks is promoted alongside support for the co-production of scholarship at all levels
 within the University. Postgraduate students are engaged as researchers and scholars,
 supported by staff who participate pro-actively in professional development to support their
 scholarly teaching, supervision and broader academic practice.

 Staff development on scholarship and research related issues is organised by the Graduate
 School and the Learning, Teaching, and Scholarship Directorate. Research seminars are held
 throughout the year, some organized centrally or by Research Centres, and some within subject
 areas and Faculties. Contributors to these seminars are a mix of University staff, research
 students, and invited speakers from other institutions.

 Postgraduate Researchers

 Overseen at Newman by the University’s Research Degrees Subcommittee, research students
 are registered both with Liverpool Hope University, our research degree validating partner, and
 with Newman University. The University has approximately 40 research students (PGRs)
 registered across MPhil, PhD, and EdD programmes. An in-house research degree training
 programme is operated annually and supplemented by local, departmental research training.
 The University subscribes to the VITAE Researcher Development Framework and conducts
 research training needs analyses at the point of application, then annually thereafter. Members
 of the central Graduate School, including the postgraduate coordinators, organise a number of
 regular staff-student liaison meetings with PGRs each year to address issues, plan training, and
 discuss ways to improve the research student experience.

 In addition to locally produced training at Newman, the University has provided students with
 various additional training resources from Epigeum to the UEA Online Training Series of
 seminars for PGRs. Research students have access to training and research resources at
 Liverpool Hope as well as Newman and can avail themselves of the SCONUL scheme to
 access materials at other libraries. All students are entitled to claim an allowance each year to
 contribute towards research expenses. Research students also have a dedicated PGR room for
 either hotdesking or office working and are allowed free printing. A biannual PGR staff-student
 liaison committee run by the postgraduate research coordinators seeks to be a forum for two-
 way communication and problem-resolution. It also organises the annual Festival of Doctoral
 Research which takes place each July soon after the Annual Monitoring Review Process, which
 ensues appropriate monitoring of progress for all research students. PGRs also have access to
 the network of research students across GuildHE Research, have access to the shared
 services provided by the consortium, and can participate in the annual two-day research
 student summer school in London.



                                                                                            Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As appropriate to a small university, oversight of strategic research objectives is undertaken by
 the central Research Committee, which is also the parent body for research degrees
 subcommittee and the research ethics subcommittee. A detailed action plan for the
 implementation of these objectives is provided and reviewed annually. Chaired by the Deputy
 Vice-Chancellor, the Research Committee draws from across the university for its constituency
 and supports both established and early career researchers. A research student representative
 sits on research degrees subcommittee.

 Research Office

 Central to research support is the coordination of the Research Office and Graduate School.
 The research office maintains a corporate research data base; up-to-date information on
 research performance in the University; postgraduate research student training and oversight;
 formalization of the University’s research centres; organization of an external speakers research
 programme; facilities to provide regular information on grants and external funding opportunities
 as well as assistance to academic staff in preparing research applications, including advice on
 costing and pricing, meeting funding eligibility criteria, and submission of bids.

 Investment

 During the REF period, the University’s major investment in research infrastructure was the
 establishment of an interdisciplinary Centre for Science, Knowledge and Belief in Society, which
 the University created to conduct an international 3-year research project to explore ‘Science
 and Religion in Society’. The Centre was housed in dedicated facilities from early 2015 to
 summer 2018 and supported through grants from the John Templeton Foundation and the
 Templeton Religion Trust. The Centre, which included colleagues in our humanities and
 psychology UoAs, supported over a dozen members of staff at its height, including a research
 office manager and administrator, a number of research fellows, and two doctoral students. At
 the end of the successful initial project, the Centre relocated to the University of Birmingham to
 develop its ongoing work.

 Research Centres

 The University has six Research Centres as discussed in Context and Mission above. These
 are supported by the central Research Office and Graduate School, and the University’s
 Finance Office. For much of the time that Newman hosted the Centre for Science, Knowledge
 and Belief in Society Research, Centre activity was also supported from 2014 to 2018 by a
 research bid writer. This post, whose core function was subsequently absorbed in the Finance
 Office, was shared with two other universities, and supported the development, writing, and
 submission of applications to a range of funders. As from 2018, other research funding support
 for Research Centre activity was outsourced on a consultancy basis. The University has
 supported bids to many funders during the REF period, including the British Academy,
 Leverhulme, the Wellcome Trust, Nuffield, the AHRC and ESRC.

 We have targeted our QR Strategic Priorities Fund allocation from UKRI at key interdisciplinary
 projects that meet the programme’s aims and are also aligned with our institutional mission.
 These were focused around public perceptions of religion and science in 2018-19 and
 Educational Policy in 2019-20.

 Support

 A sabbatical scheme has operated across the university for the majority of the REF period
 alongside a small-grants initiative to support practice-based research. The current sabbatical
 scheme has been in operation for five years and has awarded 3+ sabbaticals per year to
 research-active staff. In addition, the Research Committee invited research groups to bid for a

                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     maximum of £3000 as a contribution towards more substantial research projects. Financial
     support up to £2000 is also provided for staging conferences at the University and, outside of
     Unit of Assessment funding, support is given for conference presentation to a maximum of £400
     per conference. More general support covers both advice to the research community and
     information to the Research Committee and is provided by the Research Office Administrator as
     part of the range of provision offered by the Graduate School. This involves organizing regular
     research seminars, research training workshops and inaugural-professorial lectures, as well as
     enabling suitably qualified academic staff to engage in postgraduate research supervision. The
     University continues a policy of contributing 50% to the registration costs of staff who undertake
     professionally-related research degrees at other universities: a practice it has maintained over
     the course of this REF period.



i
    https://www.newman.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/sites/10/2018/02/Code-of-Practice-for-Research.pdf.




                                                                                                      Page 8
