Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Leeds Trinity University

 1. Context and mission

 Leeds Trinity University (LTU) is a tight-knit academic community of 171 academic
 staff (headcount) and more than 3,500 students studying across undergraduate, postgraduate,
 foundation and apprenticeship programmes on campus, with a further ca. 1300 on franchised
 programmes in the UK and beyond. Its strategy since attaining University status in 2012 has been
 to develop capacity to sustainably deliver applied end-user focused research through internal and
 external collaborations.

 As LTU’s roots go back to the establishment of two Catholic Teacher Training Colleges in 1966,
 research and impact activity at LTU has mostly focused on societal beneficiaries, the education
 and care sectors. The University Strategic Plan is based on achieving a mission of making a
 difference to the people, professions and places that we serve, and supporting social and
 economic health and wellbeing through promoting the principles of dignity, respect, social justice,
 equality and inclusion.

 To further this mission, LTU’s academic activity has now expanded from education into the
 humanities, natural and social sciences. Most research at LTU is interdisciplinary, involving
 collaboration between scholars with backgrounds in different disciplines working together to
 create new knowledge in areas of mutual interest. In line with our mission, our research is highly
 applied, focusing on the needs of end-users in the professions, organisations and communities
 that we serve; mostly having a social justice theme.

 While pockets of excellence existed, research had generally played a modest part in institutional
 culture before LTU achieved university status in 2012. The first two University Strategic Plans set
 out to embed a trajectory of growth in research impact culture across the University. Strategic
 actions completed in the timescale of the current Research Excellence Framework (REF) census
 period are described in Section 2 and include recruiting research-active staff across several Units
 of Assessment (UoA), establishing research and impact leadership and professional support at
 institutional level, establishing and maintaining relationships with partners as enablers for research
 impact, and establishing internal funding streams to support staff research and impact activities.

 An important enabler to LTU’s journey from newly chartered to modern university is achievement
 of Full Degree Awarding Powers (Full DAPs); strengthening our supporting role to our various
 communities through advanced education and knowledge creation. LTU’s doctoral degrees are
 currently awarded by the University of Leeds (UoL), and LTU has worked closely with the
 UoL throughout the census period to develop research culture for Postgraduate Researchers
 (PGRs), and doctoral supervision expertise for staff.

 LTU’s submission to REF2021 includes entries into six UoAs: Psychology, Psychiatry and
 Neuroscience; Education; Sport and Exercise Science, Leisure and Tourism; English Language
 and Literature; Theology and Religious Studies; and Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film
 and Screen Studies. Development is underway in both computer science and
 informatics, and business and management studies, to enable submission to the equivalent
 of UoAs 11 and 17 in future REF exercises. The research environment has developed during the
 census period at both institutional level and as described in each REF5b. A process to identify
 independent researchers with significant responsibility for research, as described in
 our approved REF2021 Code of Practice, was undertaken to identify Category A staff for
 submission. The University received exemptions for small submissions in UoAs 11, 17 and 28.

 These actions have resulted in a net increase since REF2014 from 20.1 to 43.6 Category A
 staff, and from five to six UoAs, indicating a strong positive trajectory in sustainability and vitality
 through the census period:



                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Table 1: Comparison of LTU’s entry to REF2014 and REF2021

 Unit of Assessment                                                      Category A      Category A
                                                                         submitted staff submitted staff
                                                                         (REF2014)       (REF2021)
 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism                              3.0             8.0
 English Language and Literature and History (Both UoAs                    English: 5.5    English: 9.2
 submitted in 2014, just English in 2021)                                  History: 4.0
 Theology and Religious Studies                                                3.5             3.0
 Communication, Culture and Media Studies, Library and                         4.1             3.6
 Information Management/ Music, Drama, Dance, Performing
 Arts, Film and Screen Studies
 Education                                                                           0                  9.8
 Psychology                                                                          0                 10.0
 TOTAL                                                                              20.1               43.6

 The University’s educational portfolio includes professionally accredited and other highly applied
 education (for example in education, law, psychology, journalism, sport and fitness, media,
 photography, health, and social care). As such, many of our academics take an interdisciplinary
 and practice focused approach to research. Synergies between research, knowledge exchange
 (KE) and taught activities are promoted, and it is a requirement for validation that taught
 programmes explicitly mention how research is drawn upon in the curriculum and how students
 are taught research skills.

 Accountability for research and research impact rests with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor and is
 managed by an Institutional Lead for Research and KE through designated Champions in each of
 the three Schools (Figure 1). The University currently has two formally constituted Research
 Centres with Management Groups (i.e., the Leeds Centre for Victorian Studies; LCVS, established
 in 1994; and the Interdisciplinary Research Centre for Interactive Storytelling; IRIS established in
 2016). Research governance is through the Research and KE Committee, which reports into
 Academic Board (the University’s most senior academic committee Chaired by the Vice-
 Chancellor):


                                 RESEARCH AND                  RESEARCH                      RESEARCH AND
                                   KNOWLEDGE                 DEGREES SUB-                      KNOWLEDGE
    ACADEMIC BOARD                  EXCHANGE                   COMMITTEE                        EXCHANGE
   Chair: Vice-Chancellor          COMMITTEE               Chair: Director of PGR              COMMITTEE
                               Chair: Institutional Lead           Studies                 Chair: Institutional Lead
                                        for RKE                                                     for RKE


                                                           RESEARCH ETHICS
                                                             AND INTEGRITY
                                                               COMMITTEE                       3 SCHOOL
                             3 x SCHOOL BOARDS               Chair: Institutional          RESEARCH ETHICS
                            Chair: 3 x Heads of School         Champion for                 AND INTEGRITY
                                                            research ethics and              COMMITTEES
                            2 x RESEARCH CENTRES
                                                                  integrity                  Chair: 3 School
                            Chair: 2 x Research Centre
                                   (Co)-Directors                                          Research Champions

                                                             REF STRATEGY
                                                                 GROUP
                                                             Chair: Institutional
                                                              Lead for RKE


 Figure 1: Structure of research and KE governance. PGR: Postgraduate research, RKE: Research
 and knowledge exchange.



                                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The University is a member of GuildHE Research, the research consortium for smaller and
 specialist higher education institutions. This organisation is a collegiate peer-to-peer network of
 30 comparable institutions that supports its members to embed a positive research culture,
 develop robust research and innovation strategies, and establish appropriate infrastructure
 through which they can drive forward their ambitions. It provides researchers of all stages with
 opportunities to network and collaborate with peers across the UK and from a broad range of
 disciplines, facilitating activities face-to-face and virtually, including an annual doctoral summer
 school, training events, and opportunities to forge new projects and communicate their research.

 2. Strategy

 Strategy during the census period 2014-2020
 During the census period the University has strengthened its research environment across the
 institution and across disciplines through internal and external collaboration focused
 on the institution’s mission. Impactful and interdisciplinary research has grown across the
 institution, aligned to its values as set out in Context and Mission, and the three institutional
 themes: ensuring sustainability; building community and inclusivity; delivering quality and impact.

 The University’s strategic approach since 2013/14 has focused on strengthening established
 areas of research, developing emergent fields of research in practice-based subjects, and
 supporting new fields of enquiry. To realise the theme of ‘ensuring sustainability’ in the LTU
 strategic plan, a portfolio review and associated recruitment of research-active
 staff was undertaken during the census period to grow the vibrancy and sustainability of the
 academic environment by bringing together subject teams within newly established Schools
 and Departments. This has resulted in:

    •   Two new UoAs being developed to the point of submission, namely Education
        and Psychology, with significant numbers of Category A staff in each.

    •   More than twice the number of Category A staff being submitted to the current REF
        compared to REF2014 as described in Section 1, with significantly more diverse
        characteristics, as described in Section 3.

    •   Two of the UoAs entered in REF2014 (English and History) being returned together in
        REF2021, under a unifying interdisciplinary focus on Victorian Studies.

    •   The establishment in 2016 of the International Centre for Interactive Storytelling (IRIS) in
        order to further facilitate internal and external interdisciplinary collaborations.

    •   Establishing socially engaged research themes, most notably Enhancing Human
        Performance and Improving Health and Wellbeing throughout the Lifespan, within the
        Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism UoA.

    •   A step-change in interdisciplinary PGR completions and recruitment.

    •   Progress in winning external research funding, with successes including the award
        of Wellcome Trust funding via a National Collaborative Award, and various funder-led
        awards.

 Strategic actions completed in the timescale of the current REF census period that have
 underpinned the achievements above, include:

    •   Establishing research and impact leadership, professional support and infrastructure at
        institutional level (e.g., revision of research ethics and integrity policies and procedures).

    •   Establishing new internal funding streams to support research and impact activities
        for all staff engaged in research (e.g., annual research support scheme calls).

                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   Promoting and recruiting research-active staff (e.g., revision of staff recruitment
        procedures).

    •   Establishing and maintaining relationships with partners as enablers for research impact.

    •   Investing to develop the PGR community (e.g., £3.28 million investment in PGR
        studentships and fee waivers).

    •   Investment in research infrastructure: a new Research and KE Office (RKEO) and
        associated staffing compliment (including a Research and KE manager, Research and KE
        Officer, and KE Co-ordinator).

    •   Significant capital (£5.3 million) and recurrent investment in Library facilities (average
        annual investment in Library information resources over the census period of £461,000);
        in particular investment in infrastructure to support Open Access (OA) publishing (PURE
        Repository, and Policies on OA and Data Management).

 Strategy for the next five years
 Professor Charles Egbu joined LTU as Vice-Chancellor in November 2020. Under his leadership
 the next institutional strategy will prioritise research, research impact and other KE activities as
 areas for development and investment. This will underpin both undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes. New research centres will be established as their research, research impact and KE
 activities reach critical mass following investment. Although under development at the time of
 writing the new strategy will prioritise building a vital, sustainable research environment that will
 remain inclusive and supportive. This will enable LTU to attract, develop and retain talented
 research staff from diverse backgrounds, whose research impact skills are attractive to external
 organisations. Together with growing engagement with partners, this will enable LTU to build its
 base of external research funding. This will be underpinned by an outstanding supporting
 infrastructure for research and research impact activities. The practice of interdisciplinary,
 collaborative research that remains outward-looking, inclusive and welcoming, and of benefit to
 individual and community wellbeing, will remain at the heart of our research environment. The
 following actions will feature in the implementation plan for the strategy and will enhance the
 vitality and sustainability of LTU’s research environment:

    •   Establishing two new interdisciplinary Research Centres for Research and KE Excellence.

    •   Enhancing synergies between research, KE and taught provision across existing research
        areas.

    •   Building a staffing plan to support the development of existing staff at all levels, as well as
        new appointments, to deliver the strategy.

    •   Achieving Full DAPs.

 3. People

 Staff
 LTU’s staffing strategy since 2013/14 has been to develop and strengthen the critical mass of
 research active staff across the institution by investing in staff development for new
 researchers (including those without significant responsibility for research) and
 making appointments that strengthen our links with professional organisations to further the
 University’s mission.

 During 2019/20 a new academic career planning tool was developed to assist staff in identifying
 their current career stage and planning to meet their aspirations. ‘Pathways’ are set out on
 research, KE, pedagogic practice and professional practice with suggested milestones from Grade
 7 (Lecturer) to Professor. The Pathways tool is being used to support staff development and

                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 applications for internal academic promotions. The research Pathway includes milestones around
 contributions to the research environment. All staff who identify on a research Pathway use the
 tool to undertake a self-audit and set development objectives during their annual review meetings.

 The University operates a workload allocation model that is consistent with the academic contract
 used in most modern universities. All academic workloads include the contractual 165 hours’ time
 for research, KE and scholarly activity (pro rata), with additional time awarded to academics for
 duties such as PGR supervision and completing funded research. Professors and Readers are
 allocated additional hours (660/375) and all staff can request additional time allocation according
 to their research plans (including working towards a doctoral degree, 135 hours) through their
 annual development reviews. Each PGR supervision is allocated 70 hours. 66 academic staff out
 of 164 (headcount) held a doctoral qualification on the REF census date. If staff undertake a
 doctorate at LTU, fees are waived. LTU has also supported a spend of ~£52,000 of conference-
 related funding allocated to its staff over the census period. To pump-prime research and impact
 activities, the research support scheme has also allocated ~£41,000 since 2013/14. Additionally,
 the University encourages consultancy, external work and approved civic roles and has a policy
 for the transparent distribution of income from the work.

 LTU promotes research development opportunities for staff and PGRs through the Vitae
 network. Staff in the RKEO schedule a programme of development activities for staff (and PGRs)
 on a range of topics including writing for publication, applying for external research funding and OA
 publishing. The UoL provides training for staff on all aspects of PGR supervision and assessment.
 LTU requires all staff involved in research, and all PGRs, to complete an online training
 programme on        research    ethics      and      integrity developed by     the    UoL and     run
 through FutureLearn. When taken together, there is normally at least one event per week
 that academic staff and/or PGRs can access during term time.

 Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs)
 LTU has been working towards a successful application for Research Degree Awarding Powers
 (‘Full DAPs’) throughout the census period and is on a trajectory to submit for Full DAPs within the
 next census period. Research degrees are currently awarded by the UoL. Governance is through
 the UoL procedures and is maintained by adherence to a signed accreditation agreement
 (reviewed and renewed in 2020). LTU is independently responsible for reviewing and granting
 ethical approval of PGR (and staff) research, monitoring finance and expenditure of PGR activities,
 reviewing PGR progress, dealing with complaints and unsatisfactory PGR performance. LTU has
 invested £3.28 million supporting PhD stipends and graduate teaching assistant research
 to underpin these PGR registrations and completions, accompanied by a further £132,000 of
 research support expenses.

 Table 2: The cumulative trajectory of growth in PGR capacity as of the REF2014 and REF2021
 census dates

                                                  REF 2014 census date REF 2021 census date
   PhD (Masters by Research) Completions          2 (0)                30 (27)
   PhD (Masters by Research) Registered           5 (0)                48 (5)
   on census date
   Model 1 (lead) supervisors                     7                         13
   Trained co-supervisors                         5                         38

 TRAINING: PGRs have access to the full range of the institutional-level research
 training programme, research seminars from across the University, and the in-house
 Postgraduate Certificate programme that leads to Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.
 Some training sessions at the UoL are also available to LTU PGRs. PGRs also have free access
 to online training courses and resources provided by the University of East Anglia through the
 institutional subscription to Vitae. A page on the University’s virtual learning environment is
 dedicated to PGR training; this includes a guide to recommended and required training at each


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 stage of the programme and includes links to all these sources of training and support as well as
 training videos such as guides to using the library. PGRs may apply for funding to attend external
 conferences and training events through the PGR Support Fund. PGRs and
 their supervisors’ benefit from regular supervisor forums which also include an annual research
 conference and a Research Café to encourage dissemination and growth of research ideas.

 SUPPORT: PGRs have access to the full range of support services available to undergraduate
 students. These include the Learning Hub, which provides study-skills support through one-to-one
 advice sessions; mental health support including access to the counselling service and Mental
 Health First Aiders, and online guides and services such as ‘Togetherall’; and financial and
 housing advice through the Student Services department and Student Union.

 MONITORING: All PGR candidates’ progress is monitored through regular supervision meetings,
 a training plan, the transfer process and annual reviews according to the UoL regulations.
 Procedures are in place for addressing unsatisfactory progress. Assessment outcomes are
 recommended by the LTU reviewing panel and formally approved by the Graduate Board of the
 UoL.

 Regular engagement in the postgraduate research experience survey (PRES) since the last REF
 has enabled comparison with national satisfaction metrics for key indicators of PGR research
 culture and environment. The 2020 data attest to the supportive and growing environment for our
 PGRs. Satisfaction ratings for supervision, research skills, professional development, and formal
 training to teach either exceed or match the national average.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 LTU is committed to supporting Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI). LTU’s EDI activities
 receive governance through the EDI Committee which reports into Academic Board. There are
 five Staff Equality Networks, one each for women, staff with disabilities, International staff, Black,
 Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff, and LGBT+ staff. The Chairs sit on the EDI Committee.
 LTU’s EDI policy seeks to:

    •   Promote a genuinely inclusive environment based on upholding the dignity and respect of
        all members of our community.

    •   Ensure that all staff and students, both prospective and current, are treated equitably.

    •   Create a positive, inclusive atmosphere and culture where there is a shared commitment
        to respect diversity, and to challenge and prevent prejudice, discrimination and
        harassment.

    •   Prepare students to live and work in a diverse society.

    •   Establish and maintain a motivated and committed community of staff where everyone is
        valued.

    •   Target action to remove inequalities.

 LTU joined the Race Equality Charter (REC) in 2018 and submitted for a Bronze charter mark in
 the census period; this was awarded in November 2020 making LTU the first university in
 Yorkshire and the Humber to be awarded a Race Equality Chartermark.

 Staff are entitled to paid maternity, paternity or adoption leave with graduated return from such
 leave and the opportunity for career breaks for exceptional/unforeseen family/domestic
 responsibilities. University staff may request flexible working hours to fit in with care arrangements
 and a flexible working policy is available for all staff.

 Following the successful use of internal Action Learning Sets, LTU has participated in the Aurora
 programme for the development of women leaders since 2019, as well as a programme between

                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 universities in Yorkshire and the Humber for pairing women mentors and mentees between
 institutions.

 The Category A staff submitted to this REF are diverse. The submission includes: 48.9%
 women, 13.3% declared from a BAME heritage, 15.6% with a declared disability, 4.4% declared
 LGBTQ+, 15.6% declared international.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since 2013/14 the following achievements, investments and innovations in infrastructure and
 facilities have been made to realise the strategy described in Section 2:

 Income
 Compared to REF2014 where institutional research income totalled ~£80,000 (averaging
 ~£16,000 per year) in the submitted units over the census period, REF2021 has seen more than
 four-fold growth (exceeding £250,000; averaging ~£39,000 per year between 2013/14 and
 2019/20), with funding awards from charities (i.e., Wellcome Trust, £223,500), matched-funded
 research studentships (i.e., the Rugby Football League, £15,000; Castleford Tigers, £15,000), and
 the QR Strategic Priorities Fund (£52,200) which was invested internally to pump-prime promising
 research programmes. Although modest, this represents significant growth in sustainability from
 2014.

 Library infrastructure
 A step-change in information to sustain vibrant research has been achieved through investment
 during the census period. A major extension to the Andrew Kean Learning Centre (£5.3 million
 with a further £400,000 AV/IT fit-out) which houses LTU’s library was opened in July 2017, with
 ~1,000 study spaces in a range of environments. Researchers benefit from 24/7 opening of the
 building at peak times, and a 24-hour IT Room available all year round. Investment was made in
 library collections (now totalling over 55,000 electronic journals and 500,000 e-books including
 major packages from publishers such as Elsevier, Sage, Taylor & Francis and Wiley and
 multidisciplinary collections from JSTOR, EBSCO and Gale), and nearly 100,000 printed volumes.
 The University has made an annual average investment in Library information resources over the
 census period of £461,000. A new Discovery service facilitates integrated searching across most
 of our journal collections, with citation and impact analysis supported through SCOPUS and a
 growing range of generic and discipline-specific information databases. Dedicated Liaison
 Librarians support each of the University’s Schools, delivering specialist workshops for
 researchers (as described in Staffing), supplemented by research support pages on the Library
 website. The PURE CRIS system, to enable integrated management of research workflows, was
 procured during the census period. This includes a rapidly expanding repository of research
 outputs (as of 12th February 2021, 3,517 outputs, of which 1,810 had an associated full-text
 document). PURE is managed by the Systems Librarian, who also provides advice and guidance
 to researchers on OA and research data management. Since 2019, PURE has been hosted as a
 cloud-based service by Elsevier, resulting in high levels of resilience and ensuring that the
 database is running on the most current version. Researchers are also able to gain rapid access
 to books and journal articles via our interlibrary loan service (electronic delivery of journal articles
 has been in place since 2019) and enjoy enhanced borrowing rights at the UoL Libraries through
 an access agreement.

 OA publication is supported by a central budget that has funded ~£8,000 of article processing
 charges since 2017. Preferential outcomes are favoured for strategically important manuscripts
 that are submitted to journals where authors are required to make study protocols, datasets, and
 codes available on publication (e.g., PLoS One; supporting the underpinning research submitted
 in our impact case studies). Similarly, in agreement with discipline-specific practices, the
 University encourages the use of reporting checklists to improve the reporting of research
 methods, detailed and clear data management plans, and publicly pre-registering research by
 posting to a suitable repository (e.g., PROSPERO).


                                                                                                  Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Facilities development
 In Units of Assessment where physical resources are required (i.e., UoA4, UoA24, UoA33), use
 is shared across research, KE and learning and teaching, and across discipline boundaries. For
 instance, research facilities for UoA24 and UoA33 have been consolidated into bespoke buildings
 that incorporate specialist laboratories and equipment in environments designed for KE with
 external stakeholders (e.g., the Sports Centre is open to the general public). Collaboration
 agreements also exist to offset the cost for using such facilities when linked to research and KE
 activities, supporting the research submitted to REF2021. The £140,000 investment in specialist
 motion capture equipment in the forthcoming Sports Science and Sports Therapy Centre, ready
 in late 2021, will host flagship new multi-purpose laboratories that are aligned to the activities of
 both UoA24 and UoA33, thus contributing to the sustainability of the Units. Furthermore, office
 accommodation was designed and installed (~£16,000) during the census period to provide
 comprehensive facilities for up to 16 PGRs and postdoctoral researchers.

 Concluding statement
 LTU’s interdisciplinary and practice focused approach to research, impact and KE activity is
 supported by a multitude of partnerships and national and international collaborations that enable
 us to deliver our distinctive offer. Reflecting on our achievements over the census period, LTU
 has:

    •   Invested significantly (~£5.94 million) in infrastructure (includes library capital) that
        facilitates research and impact generation as well as significant investment to support OA
        publishing and other information resources.

    •   Attracted, developed, and deployed a flexible staff team with outstanding capabilities in
        research and research impact.

    •   Enhanced the sustainability and vibrancy of our research environment through support
        for new and existing UoAs.

    •   Led and participated in successful research and impact partnerships to deliver positive
        social and economic benefit aligned to our mission and values.

    •   Supported the academic community by developing new opportunities for graduates to
        study postgraduate taught or PGR degrees at LTU.

    •   Shaped leading-edge professional practice through dialogue, debate, consultancy, and
        research with businesses, public and third sector organisations, professional bodies and
        other partners nationally and internationally.

    •   Worked with professional communities to support them in achieving their objectives and
        providing them with research and KE which addresses their challenges.

    •   Nurtured the physical and mental health, development and wellbeing of our PGRs and
        research-active staff, delivering standards of care commensurate with our values.
    •   Ensured an inclusive and diverse community of PGRs, staff and partners that is enriched
        by diversity, and in which everyone is valued.




                                                                                               Page 8
