Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth


 1. Context and mission

 Portsmouth is a modern university providing outstanding education underpinned by globally-
 recognised, impactful research. We have entered every REF/RAE since 1992, building on our
 strengths as our research grows. In REF2021, we are submitting 603 staff, more than double the
 number submitted to REF2014. We are entering 16 Units of Assessment (UoA), including two
 for the first time (UoA18 & 33). Our submission contains over 1,400 outputs (50% more than
 2014) and 54 impact case studies (25% more than last time).

 Our 1,700 academics educate 25,000 students in subjects ranging from Accountancy to
 Victimology. We have internationally excellent Research Centres in biomedical science,
 cosmology, criminal justice, and European and international studies, as well as emerging
 expertise in the fields of mental health, plastics pollution, ocean governance, and virtual reality.
 Interdisciplinary research centres around our Thematic Areas of democracy, health and
 wellbeing, security, sustainability, and technology.

 We have 28 departments across five faculties: Business and Law; Creative and Cultural
 Industries; Humanities and Social Sciences; Science and Health; and Technology. Central
 support for research is provided by Research and Innovation Services (RIS) and our Graduate
 School.

 Our mission is to create, share and apply knowledge to make a difference to individuals, society
 and our planet. Our ambition is to be the top modern university in the UK and one of the world’s
 top 100 young universities by 2030.


 2. Strategy

 Our aim is to deliver globally-recognised research and innovative solutions that improve society.
 We have developed our goals through progressive university strategies for 2012-2017, 2015-
 2020, and now 2020-25. These strategies have built momentum over the past decade,
 expanding our overall capacity and capability by growing strength in existing and emerging
 areas of excellence.

 Our long-term strategic objectives are to:

    1. Engage more people in excellent research, building critical mass in our existing and
       emerging areas of strength.

    2. Deliver impact for our community, our region, and our planet.

    3. Strengthen our capabilities by improving infrastructure and governance.

    4. Raise the profile of our research and our researchers.


                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Objective 1: Engage more people in excellent research, building critical mass in our
 existing and emerging areas of strength

 1.1 Growing Capacity and Developing Capability

    1. To engage more staff in excellent research, we have focused on growing our capacity
       and developing capability. We have grown capacity by bringing in new researchers,
       targeting recruitment to secure researchers active in our areas of strength or who have
       the potential to grow into research leaders of the future (Section 3:People).

    2. We have developed capability by helping our existing staff improve their research skills
       and develop their careers. We provide more - and better - training, support and
       guidance, and have redesigned our policies and processes for our University Workload
       Allocation (WLA), new Performance and Development Review (PDR), and academic
       promotions to ensure that staff are appropriately recognised and rewarded for their
       research contribution (Section 3).

    3. As a result of our approach, more staff than ever are engaged in research. The average
       research WLA has risen by 12% since 2016 (243hrs a year across all staff in 2020)
       helping to double the number of people submitted to REF2021 compared to 2014. We
       have also seen the number of promotions increase, resulting in 30 new Professors and
       Readers in 2020 - the highest number in a year (30% female).

 1.2 Building Critical Mass

    4. To build critical mass around our areas of existing and emerging strength, we targeted
       resources to launch and support research centres and institutes and established five
       university-wide interdisciplinary Thematic Areas.

    5. We support existing disciplinary excellence through ongoing investment in our
       established Institutes of Cosmology and Gravitation (ICG), Biomedical and Biomolecular
       Sciences (IBBS), Criminal Justice Studies (ICJS), and our Centre for European and
       International Studies Research (CEISR).

    6. We have also invested in developing critical mass in areas of emerging excellence. Our
       Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL) was established in 2014, building
       on recognised interdisciplinary work between our Business School and our Department
       of Mathematics. In its first five years, CORL generated £3M in income and produced over
       100 outputs. In 2019, we launched our Centre for Enzyme Innovation (CEI) with an
       investment of £5.8M from Research England (E3 fund), which grew out of our world-
       leading enzyme research in IBBS (awarded 2019 THE STEM Research Project of the
       Year). CEI has now inspired our Theme-led Revolution Plastics (RP) project that draws
       together researchers from across the university to tackle global plastics pollution. RP is
       already influencing G20 and World Bank policy.

    7. We launched the Centre for Blue Governance (CBG) and the Centre for Creative and
       Immersive Extended Reality (CCIXR) in 2020. CBG emerged from our growing expertise


                                                                                           Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

        in marine conservation and ocean governance, bringing together 71 researchers from
        across the institution. CCIXR has grown out of interdisciplinary work in creative
        technology, architecture, fashion and sport science, securing £3.6m in Solent LEP
        funding to support its work on virtual and extended reality.

    8. Our investment in areas of emerging excellence is ongoing, as we aim to create one new
       research centre or institute per year during our 2020-25 Strategy.

    9. To further promote interdisciplinary research, we launched our five university-wide
       Thematic Areas in 2018: Democratic Citizenship; Future and Emerging Technologies;
       Health and Wellbeing; Security and Risk; and Sustainability and the Environment. These
       five Themes were chosen to reflect our existing and emerging strengths and to channel
       them into addressing major societal challenges as laid out in national research strategies
       (Nurse Review 2015; UK Industrial Strategy 2017) and international commitments (UN
       SDG). Dedicated Theme Professors were recruited to provide high-level research
       leadership in each Theme, clustering colleagues from different disciplines and career
       stages, and identifying opportunities for collaboration and impact. Over the next five
       years, we will further embed our Thematic Areas into all aspects of our research,
       innovation and education.

    10. Since 2018, we have reinvested our GCRF QR funding (£536k in total) to build our
        capacity around overseas development. This has resulted in major new projects, such as
        DFID-funded work in South Sudan (UoA25), augmented existing initiatives (CBG;
        UoA18) and increased the number of co-authors on our outputs from the DAC list of
        Least Developed Countries by 15%, helping to boost overall international co-authorship
        on our outputs to 60.4% in 2020.

 Objective 2: Deliver impact for our community, our region, and our planet

 2.1 Laying the Foundation

    11. Impactful research takes time. Our 2012-2017 Strategy laid the foundation for our long-
        term impact agenda by identifying areas of institutional strength, aligning that work with
        societal challenges, and promoting impact through partnerships. We augmented this
        approach in our 2015-2020 Strategy, which added university-wide support for impact
        through our Thematic Areas.

    12. This impact has been facilitated through local and strategic investment schemes over the
        past decade, including our university-wide Research Development Fund (2012-17) and
        Impact Acceleration Fund (2018-19), and now our Themes Research and Innovation
        Fund (TRIF), augmented by local strategic use of QR funding.

    13. This long-term approach has created impactful research of global importance, as
        demonstrated through our 54 Impact Case Studies. We have helped protect pangolins
        (UoA20) and orang-utans (UoA4), and optimized the design of batteries for future electric
        vehicles (UoA10). We have improved wellbeing for wheelchair users (UoA11), and
        provided Xenopus frogs for vital biomedical research (UoA3). We have helped tackle the


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

        illegal ivory trade (UoA18), improved ocean governance (UoA17), and worked towards
        ending violence against women in developing countries (UoA25). We also educate
        millions through our world-leading citizen science projects (UoA9).

 2.2 Delivering Impact through Strategic Partnerships

    14. Having built internal capacity and capability, our 2020-25 Strategy shifts our focus
        outward. We have committed to developing five major new strategic partnerships to
        deliver solutions that meet society’s needs. For example, CORL has partnered with local
        councils to implement innovative solutions for moving people and freight across the
        region through the DfT-funded Solent Future Transport Zone (UoA10).

    15. The development of such partnerships is coordinated by Collaboration Managers in our
        Research and Innovation Services (RIS; paragraphs 56-58), working closely with Faculty
        colleagues and aided by a major investment in a new Customer Relations Management
        (CRM) software system in 2019. As a result, we have already witnessed a growing
        number of global (e.g. UNESCO, African Union, General Motors, Coca Cola) and UK
        partnerships (e.g. Wildlife Trusts, RNIB, RNLI).

    16. We are also working to become a leading civic university (2020-25 Strategy) by building
        on our existing regional strategic partnerships. These include Portsmouth Hospitals
        University NHS Trust, the Royal Navy, BAE Systems, Portsmouth Football Club, and
        Hampshire Constabulary (our Forensic Innovation Centre was awarded the 2015 THE
        Outstanding Employer Engagement Award).

 2.3 Delivering Impact through Enterprise

    17. We recognise business and enterprise as key enablers for delivering societal impact, and
        work closely with local SMEs to build long-term relationships, as recognised by the Small
        Business Charter Kitemark status of our Business School. Our Innovation Connect
        service brings companies onto campus by offering office space and a central hub for
        business-to-university engagement. We host an ESA ambassador for business
        applications, the Supporting Innovation and Growth in Healthcare Technologies (SIGHT)
        programme, and the UKSA South Coast Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications
        (SCCoE).

    18. We have also engaged in 33 KTPs over the REF period (up from 26 in the last REF
        period), plus an additional 26 Innovate UK funded projects, worth a total of £5.8M. These
        projects help commercialise our research and develop business applications. In 2020,
        we submitted the largest number of applications of any UK university to the national
        Ingenuity programme for early investment in SMEs with a global societal impact.

    19. Over the next five years, we will deliver a strategy for jointly facilitating research impact
        and knowledge exchange (KE) across the institution, bringing together our support for
        both - maximising academic engagement and increasing benefits for partners.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Objective 3: Strengthen our capabilities by improving infrastructure and governance

 3.1 Strengthening Central Infrastructure

    20. Our central RIS was restructured in 2016 to federate support for research, knowledge
        exchange, external engagement, and to accommodate our new Thematic Areas. Since
        2018, the Themes have supported 168 bids, with a success rate of 52%, securing £20M
        of external income.

    21. In 2011, we established our Graduate School which continues to facilitate recruitment
        and training of postgraduate research students (PGRs) and support their supervisors. As
        a result, we have seen a 40% growth in PGR numbers during our 2015-20 Strategy -
        reaching nearly 800 by 2020 - while still achieving 82% overall satisfaction in the most
        recent PRES survey.

 3.2 Strengthening Research Governance

    22. Our 2015-2020 Strategy committed us to the highest standards of academic,
        professional and research integrity. We conduct all research under the aegis of our
        Research Ethics Policy (refreshed in 2019) and in compliance with the Concordat to
        Support Research Integrity, the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care
        Research, the UKRIO Code of Practice for Research, and UKRI guidelines. We follow
        the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research, and signed the San Francisco
        Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).

    23. All research projects undergo faculty ethics review overseen by our University Ethics
        Committee (paragraph 59). Incidences of research misconduct are investigated using our
        Allegations of Misconduct in Research procedure, with outcomes reported to the Board
        of Governors and published annually online. We investigated just three allegations of
        misconduct in 2020.

    24. In 2014, we adopted Pure as our research repository and introduced an Open Access
        (OA) Policy requiring staff to deposit all outputs in compliance with OA principles.
        Compliance has risen from 13% in 2014 to 88% in 2020. In 2015, we published our
        Research Data Management (RDM) Policy, with additional guidance around open data,
        and appointed a Research Data Officer in 2017 to promote best practice. As a result,
        compliance with our RDM policy rose to 63% by 2020, in line with our goal to achieve
        95% compliance by REF 2028.

 Objective 4: Raise the profile of our research and our researchers

    25. We continue to invest in raising public awareness of our research and researchers
        through our 2015-20 and 2020-25 Strategies. This awareness provides new
        opportunities for follow-on research and impact, helping develop relationships with new
        collaborators, partners and beneficiaries.

    26. In 2019, we recharged the style and infrastructure of our University website, with
        research as a key, integrated part of University life, celebrating our successes and

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

        providing important information about colleagues, research centres, and stories (e.g.
        blogs). In 2020, our research pages received over 200,000 views.

    27. We launched “Solve” in 2020, a magazine providing in-depth profiles of our researchers
        for alumni, donors, partners and a general international audience. The first printed edition
        reached 250,000 people across the world, with many more engaging online. Further
        editions are coming, with an associated podcast series “Life Solved”. Such media have
        generated new partnership requests, especially for Revolution Plastics, and alumni
        volunteering, forming a vital part of our alumni fundraising (paragraph 62).

    28. We actively promote ourselves by strategically engaging with “The Conversation”, an
        online platform for academic news and views, providing both encouragement and
        training to our academics to write timely articles. We are regularly within the site’s Top 10
        UK universities for both articles and readership, already publishing over 300 online
        articles with 9.5M global reads.


 3. People

 We invest in the capacity and capability of our staff and students to deliver our strategic
 objectives for research and impact, focusing on:

    1. Recruiting a diversity of staff to be research leaders of the future.

    2. Enabling all to excel in research through better training and support.

    3. Embedding equality, diversity and inclusion.

    4. Recognising and rewarding staff who deliver excellent, impactful research.

 Objective 1: Recruiting a diversity of staff to be research leaders of the future.

    29. We have focused on recruiting a diverse staff with the potential to be research leaders.
        We encourage recruitment from less traditional backgrounds and under-represented
        groups and welcome staff from practitioner backgrounds, supporting them to apply their
        expertise to academic research and to gain qualifications. As a result, the proportion of
        our academic staff with a PhD has risen from 54% to 63% over this REF period.

    30. Our recruitment processes are designed to minimise unconscious bias through inclusive
        language in adverts, clearer job descriptions/person specifications, and recruiter training
        across the organisation. All staff complete unconscious bias training and all interview
        panels include a trained interviewer and female panel interviewers. We are currently
        introducing anonymous recruitment to reduce unconscious bias further.

    31. As a result, we have seen the proportion of female staff increase from 43% to 46% over
        the last five years, with the proportion of shortlisted women increasing from 23% to 30%
        and the proportion of women offered positions increasing from 39% to 51%. Likewise, we
        have seen our proportion of BAME staff increase from 12% to 16%, with the proportion of


                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

        UK/EU/Swiss BAME staff shortlisted increasing from 13% to 16%, and the proportion
        offered a position increasing from 11% to 13%. Of current academic staff recruited over
        the REF period, 3% were aged 25 or under, 48% were 26 to 35, 28% were 36 to 45, 14%
        were 46 to 55, and 7% were 56 or above.

    32. We actively support the recruitment of future research leadership through external
        fellowships (e.g. UKRI FLF). Faculties are encouraged to target talented individuals by
        offering proleptic posts, match-funding, and assistance preparing applications.

 Objective 2: Enabling all to excel in research through better training and support

 2.1 Staff Training and Development

    33. Since 2014, RIS has delivered our Research and Innovation Staff Development
        Programme (RISDP, @DevelopRI), providing 238 seminars across topics including
        grant-writing, networking, and research integrity. Over 1,200 staff have participated so
        far.

    34. In 2020, we supplemented RISDP with a cohort development programme, providing
        targeted mentoring, coaching and training for groups of researchers at three key stages
        of professional development: ECRs, Readers, and Research Leaders. We recruit staff
        through open calls, with targeted encouragement for under-represented groups. Fifty-
        three researchers are participating in the first year, increasing to 80 available places a
        year going forward.

    35. We support our female staff through access to the Advance HE Aurora leadership
        programme, with 113 women completing it since 2014. We also provide places on the
        Springboard (female) and Navigator (male) personal development courses from
        Springboard Consultancy.

    36. We introduced an annual University Sabbatical Scheme in 2016, offering competitive,
        flexible, funded sabbaticals to academic staff. So far, 97 colleagues have used this
        scheme for research sabbaticals, generating new partnerships, projects, outputs and
        networks.

    37. Mentoring is a fundamental part of personal development and vital for a sustainably
        positive and inclusive research environment. In 2020, we invested in a new university-
        wide online mentoring platform, with 107 mentees and 69 mentors on the platform to
        date, and 60 live mentoring partnerships.

 2.2.1 Targeted Support - PGRs

    38. The Graduate School (GS) Development Programme (GSDP) provides extensive
        training for PGRs and supervisors aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development
        Framework (RDF). They run nearly 200 face-to-face sessions each year, accompanied
        by online resources. Faculties and departments also provide discipline-specific training,
        including for students on our externally-funded doctoral training programmes (STFC,
        ESRC, BBSRC). Our annual university-wide Festival of Doctoral Research provides

                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

        students with opportunities to network and present their work to the whole University
        community.

    39. Our GS led a nationally-funded (RE/OfS) study of good practices to support PGR mental
        health. Our findings are now embedded into all aspects of our PGR induction, training
        and progression, with regular monitoring through the GS Management Board. We are
        exporting this good practice as a Mental Health and Wellbeing module for the Vitae RDF.

    40. Since 2014, this targeted support has helped maintain high PGR completion rates (79%
        overall) and strong PRES scores; consistently above sector norms.

 2.2.2 Targeted Support - ECRs and FTCs

    41. We are committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
        receiving the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2013 (renewed in 2019). Early career
        researchers (ECRs) are a key group within the University and make up 20% of this REF
        submission. ECRs are supported to establish themselves through targeted workload
        allocations and ring-fenced development funds, as well as equal access to our
        University-wide RDF (2012-2016) and now TRIF. In 2015, we created a University
        Researchers’ Network for ECRs and mid-career researchers to facilitate networking,
        peer support and shared learning.

    42. For our fixed-term contract (FTC) researchers, we created our Research Staff Forum,
        providing a pathway for institutional representation. FTC researchers can also access the
        same training, funding opportunities and support as permanent staff, but with appropriate
        recognition of their status, e.g. we have established a dedicated FTC-researcher track
        within our PDR system.

 Objective 3: Embedding equality, diversity and inclusion

    43. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are embedded throughout our institution via our
        Athena Swan and Race Equality Charter (REC) action plans.

    44. We achieved an Athena Swan Institutional Bronze award in 2014 (reaffirmed in 2018)
        and will submit for an Institutional Silver award in 2021. Presently 11 departments and
        one Faculty possess Athena Swan Bronze awards, with the expectation outlined in our
        Athena Swan action plan for all departments to be Bronze or better before the next REF.
        We have identified Athena Swan Champions across the University and established
        dedicated funds to support activity that promotes gender equality. We host an annual
        university-wide Athena Swan Conference to raise awareness and promote action around
        gender equality.

    45. In 2018, we signed up to the REC principles of tackling racial inequalities in the HE
        sector. We submitted our full action plan in February 2021, setting out the steps we will
        take to identify challenges, address problems, and improve the experience of BAME staff
        and students. We are also a Stonewall Diversity Champion, promoting the inclusion of
        the LGBTQ community on campus, and a member of the Disability Confident scheme.


                                                                                            Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

    46. In 2015, we introduced a flexible and remote working policy resulting in a six-fold
        increase in applications over the last five years (108 for 2019/20, of which 96% were
        approved). In light of the mass shift to home-working, we are now reviewing this policy to
        further support agile working for all. We also reimburse caring costs associated with
        attending conferences, networking and events.

    47. All staff complete core training on unconscious bias, anti-bullying and harassment, and
        diversity and inclusion. Line managers must also complete training on managing stress,
        mental health awareness and equality, dignity and respect in the workplace. Staff can
        also undertake a range of optional training courses on gender diversity, Islam and
        Muslim culture, disability, autism, and tackling hate crime.

    48. We support our staff and students via the provision of several informal communities
        including the LGBTQ Network, Staff Multicultural Network, Women’s Staff Network,
        Disability Staff Network, and Parents and Carers Network.

    49. We monitor and publish our gender pay gap, which was 14.2% for 2018 - lower than that
        for the wider economy (17.4%) and the HE sector (15.5%). The gender pay gap for staff
        submitted to REF 2021 is 6%, which is lower than the gap for UK academic staff (11%).
        However, we will continue to identify and eradicate all pay gaps as per our strategic
        target to reduce our gender pay gap to less than 10% by 2025.

 3.1 EDI during REF2021 submission

    50. Our Code of Practice outlines the process of identifying staff and selecting outputs for
        REF2021. All staff involved in making decisions during this submission were required to
        complete specialist Advance HE EDI training and were required to refresh their core EDI
        training (paragraph 47). We also appointed UoA Co-Coordinators in 2018 to actively
        promote diversity and build research leadership capacity for the future. An appropriate
        WLA was provided to reflect the importance of these roles. Five Equality Impact
        Assessments (EIAs) were undertaken during REF preparations to ensure no bias in our
        processes.

    51. The proportion of women submitted (40%) is similar to that for women eligible (43%).
        Likewise, 17% of eligible staff are BAME, and 17% of submitted staff are BAME. Staff
        with a declared disability make up 5% of our submission, compared to 8% of eligible
        staff. The age profile is well-distributed; 65% are in the 36-55 bracket, with 17% older
        and 17% younger. This is skewed slightly higher in the middle age bracket than the
        eligible staff population. We see no bias against part-time staff, who make up 11% of
        submitted staff compared to 14% of eligible staff.

    52. For output selection, female authors make up 37%, with BAME authors providing 15%,
        and colleagues with declared disabilities at 5%. These output proportions are consistent
        with our staff submission percentages above.




                                                                                              Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Objective 4: Recognising and rewarding staff who deliver excellent, impactful research

    53. Over the last five years, our online WLA and PDR systems (paragraph 2) have enabled
        supportive discussions between line managers and staff about work priorities, career
        progression, and aspirations, and set clear expectations for long-term performance
        against our strategic goals and values. Research and impact are a crucial part of such
        discussions. Guidance is provided on the appropriate WLAs for a range of research
        activities and personal development objectives.

    54. The university refreshed its academic promotions policy in 2017, creating clear pathways
        via research, innovation, and education. Our promotion process is run annually, with
        considerable formal (seminars, workshops) and informal (mentoring) advice available to
        help all staff develop their applications, with a particular emphasis on encouraging
        applications from under-represented groups. Of the staff submitted to this REF, over
        50% have received at least one promotion at the university since 2014.

    55. Line managers are empowered to recognise exceptional performance through a
        Recognition Award of up to £2k per award, and staff and students can nominate
        colleagues for the annual Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 To support impactful research, our approach to improving institutional facilities, infrastructure
 and governance focuses on:

    1. Consolidating central support for research and impact and strengthening governance.

    2. Generating extra income to be reinvested into facilities and infrastructure.

    3. Reinvesting in areas of existing and emerging strength and the generation of real-world
       impact.

 Objective 1: Consolidating central support for research and impact and strengthening
 governance.

    56. RIS is our central hub for research and impact, supporting the Faculties with grant-
        writing, proactively identifying opportunities and initiatives, and operating our internal
        Peer Review College. Our central teams work closely with Faculty teams to support the
        preparation of bids, aid in project delivery, and provide advice on contracts and post-
        award issues.

    57. Each Faculty has a RIS Collaboration Manager to support business engagement, consult
        on IP issues and facilitate strategic partnerships. RIS also provides a dedicated
        Research Impact Manager and two Impact Officers, co-located in the Faculties, to help
        generate and record impact.




                                                                                              Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

    58. RIS was restructured in 2016 to consolidate support for research, impact and KE, and to
        accommodate our Thematic Areas. This central support has driven growth in research
        funding. Over this REF period, the number of UK Research Council awards grew by
        60%, with an increased value of over 50%. We also achieved a 20% increase in income
        from non-UK sources over the same period.

    59. Our University Ethics Committee is supported by RIS and our dedicated University Ethics
        Advisor, a recognised expert in research ethics and integrity who holds several national
        roles (UoA3).

 Objective 2: Generating extra income to be reinvested into facilities and infrastructure.

    60. A major objective for generating more income has been to encourage and enable staff to
        be more ambitious when bidding for funding. Our Thematic Areas provide training and
        bid support, identifying and developing opportunities for impactful, interdisciplinary
        research across more diverse funding sources. We have already seen bid numbers grow
        by 26% (from 275 in 2014 to 346 in 2019), and income up by 35% to £9.5M. We have set
        an ambitious target to increase our annual R&I income by £10M by 2025.

    61. The development of large-bid capability is a key element of our strategy going forward.
        Dedicated Research Development Officers for our Thematic Areas are able to lead on
        large and/or interdisciplinary bids. Recent successes of this strategy include securing
        LEP funding for CEI (£1M), NERC funding for Revolution Plastics (£700k), three EDRF
        grants for low-carbon and healthcare technologies (£6M), and Innovate UK funds for
        drones and wind-turbine research (£1.8M).

    62. Our 2020-2025 Strategy has identified philanthropic and alumni funding as a vital
        opportunity to generate income and build partnerships to support our research. In 2019,
        we established a new Alumni and Advancement team who had their first success in 2020
        with a Flotilla Foundation grant (£234k) for Revolution Plastics. Our target is to secure at
        least £1m per year in philanthropic funding by 2025.

 Objective 3: Reinvesting in areas of existing and emerging strength and the generation of
 real-world impact.

 3.1 Reinvesting in Facilities

    63. We invest our research income into infrastructure, facilities and support for our existing
        and emerging areas of strength. Funding is distributed centrally via our annual Strategic
        and Financial Planning process and our Thematic Areas (£6M a year). Over this REF
        cycle, we have invested more than £95M of direct and matched funding into strategic
        projects, equipment, facilities and our estate. In addition, we have directly reallocated QR
        funding (£5.4M in 2020) to Faculties to enable local strategic decision-making, where it is
        used for additional PGR bursaries, facilities and equipment, ECR support, and staff
        professional development (e.g. travel and training).




                                                                                            Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

    64. Since 2014, £6.4M of central funding has been reinvested to support strategically
        important research facilities. This includes our Extreme Environment Laboratories
        (UoA24), European Xenopus Resource Centre (UoA3), Zeiss Global Centre (ZGC), and
        most recently £8.7M of match funding for both the CEI and CCIXR. We have also
        invested in state-of-the-art equipment, including our 3702-core SCIAMA supercomputer
        (UoA9) and two high-resolution X-ray microscopes (£1.4M) for bioengineering (UoA12).

    65. Our 2020-25 Strategy recognises the role of our estate as a key enabler of our research.
        For example, our £14M investment in the Eldon Building in 2014 laid the foundation for
        CCIXR, while our £12M investment in the Future Technology Centre gave us the ZGC
        and supports Innovation Connect. Since 2014, we have invested £5M in our library to
        provide outstanding learning resources, and our £57M investment in the new Ravelin
        Sports Centre (opening in 2022) will boost our Health and Wellbeing Thematic Area. Our
        statement Victoria Park Building (opening 2024) will revolutionise research and teaching
        in our Faculties of Business and Law and Humanities and Social Sciences.

 3.2 Sharing Facilities to Generate Impact

    66. We offer open access to our facilities to external academics and partners, helping to
        drive new opportunities for research collaboration that include business and industry.
        This approach has seen the number of external collaborators included in our UK
        Research Council proposals increase by 50% since 2014, with the proportion of our
        outputs with corporate co-authors increasing by 17%.

    67. We enable our researchers to use external specialist facilities by funding network
        development, travel and access. We invest in memberships such as the Dark Energy
        Survey, Chatham House in London, the Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility
        (LSMSF) in Glasgow and Bristol, and the Atom Probe Facility in Oxford. We received
        over £1.4M of in-kind funding from STFC and other UKRI facilities providers.




                                                                                           Page 12
