Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Chester

 1. Context and mission

 Size and Structure
 The University of Chester is a learning and research community consisting of some 1,800 staff
 and 14,300 students drawn from across the UK and 130 countries worldwide. Comprising 7
 faculties, we are located on 6 sites across Cheshire, Shropshire, and the Wirral.

 Building upon the successful creation of the Faculty of Science and Engineering in 2013/14, in this
 REF period we established the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Life Sciences, and a strategic
 alliance with University Centre Reaseheath. These advancements further augment our ongoing
 commitment to excellence in both research and teaching.

 The University offers a range of research degrees, which have seen growth in recent years (more
 than 500 PGR students in total, including 275 MPhil/PhD and 200 Professional Doctorate
 candidates), as well as an extensive undergraduate and postgraduate degree portfolio.

 University Mission
 At the University of Chester, evolved from the Diocesan Training College founded in 1839, we
 continue to embody our Mission, Vision and Foundational Values in recognising:
     • “the dignity and worth of every individual.”
     • “the vital role of education in the service of society.”
     • “the inherent value of the pursuit of truth and freedom of enquiry.”

 These shape and characterise our research environment and impact activities, and help cultivate
 our distinctive commitments to:
    •    advance local and global agendas in relation to inclusion, equality, diversity and
         human rights;
    •    advance knowledge and enhance practice in the service of society;
    •    support innovation, invention, experimentation, and creativity to ensure a sustainable
         future.

 We are justifiably proud of the open, inclusive, and supportive environment that characterises
 us, and are committed to equipping all of our students and staff with the “education, skills,
 support, and motivation to enable them to develop as confident world citizens, and successfully
 to serve and improve the global communities within which they live and work.”

 2. Strategy
 The University’s Research and Impact strategy focuses on four interdisciplinary Core Themes,
 which build upon existing strengths, reflect the institutional values, and contribute to all United
 Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals:
     • Health and Wellbeing;
     • Culture and Society;
     • Sustainability and Environment;
     • Regional Economy.

 REF Strategy 2014-2021
 The University’s Corporate Plan 2014-2020 provided a clear commitment to the creation and
 propagation of knowledge that is significant and vibrant, has recognised impact, supports
 excellence, and creates opportunities for developing sustainable, cultural, and effective
 communities.

 We committed to:
   • Host an expanding and innovative university research environment that supports world-
       class research;


                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   Create knowledge through research and innovation within and beyond academic
        disciplines;
    •   Ensure that high quality research and innovative practices contribute to exceptional
        learning and teaching, and help influence the development and improvement of society;
    •   Provide an enabling environment where adventure and risk-taking in research is valued,
        success is celebrated, and where setbacks are valued as learning opportunities;
    •   Be the clear university partner of choice in the communities we serve by contributing
        effectively to the economic, social, and cultural success of these communities, both in the
        UK and internationally.

 To achieve these broader goals, we identified key priorities to enhance the University’s research
 activities.

 Improve the Number and Quality of Research Outputs Across the University
 In our goal to produce more world-class outputs, the University has invested substantially in the
 following areas:

   1. People
        a. Recruiting staff with strong research credentials and a keen desire for innovation and
           knowledge exchange
        b. Increasing focus on quality time spent on research, whilst retaining accountability via
           the staff development review process.
        c. Developing a formal application and assessment process for research leave
        d. Introducing peer mentoring to provide staff with the opportunity to develop their own
           skills whilst supporting and nurturing those of their colleagues
        e. The University Conference Attendance Scheme provides staff with the opportunity to
           present to local, national, and international audiences of both the public and their
           peers.

   2. Facilities, equipment and services:
        a. Thornton Science Park provides staff with technical research facilities to conduct
             world-class research alongside 38 local businesses from the centre of Cheshire
             Science Corridor’s Enterprise Zone, enabling knowledge exchange and seamless
             sharing of resources (e.g. SME incubation spaces)
        b. University Centre Shrewsbury has transformed an area low in investment in R&D and
             innovation into a vibrant research environment, with 300sqm of environmental
             laboratories and dedicated spaces for SMEs.
        c. The Storyhouse Partnership provides our staff with opportunities to engage with the
             public via workshops, lectures, and exhibitions, all housed alongside a nationally-
             acclaimed theatre company, pioneering library, and cultural centre in Chester.
        d. NoWFOOD technical centre offers a comprehensive package of support for SMEs, as
             well as providing R&D for established food and drink manufacturers
        e. Riverside Innovation Centre is dedicated to developing business potential by offering
             office space and professional conferencing/meeting facilities for small businesses in
             Chester. With £5.5m investment, we now provide 2,000sqm of space, of which 21
             commercial companies currently take advantage.

 Advancement of Research Impact
 Workshops are regularly facilitated to develop academic colleagues’ understanding of the
 applicability of research and its impact, progressing our goal of ensuring impact is at the heart of
 our research agenda. As a result of this, Units of Assessment (UoAs) are encouraged to identify
 research activities with potential for significant impact, and develop strategies to ensure research
 activities will intentionally engage in co-creation with communities, as well as organisations, public
 and private sector bodies, and governments, both nationally and internationally. We also invested
 in the development of our professional doctorate (DProf) degree portfolio, where students draw
 on the University’s research expertise to investigate professional and organisational practice. We


                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 are proud of the Impact Case Studies submitted to REF2021 and anticipate significant
 improvement across the institution for our impact activities.

 Open Research
 The University’s repository, ChesterRep, provides an online platform for the wider research
 community and public to access research undertaken by our staff. This fulfils our responsibility to
 ensure research outputs are Open Access wherever possible, while adhering to copyright and
 licence agreements. The University’s mandatory deposit policy, which includes doctoral/MPhil
 theses and publications by individuals asserting an affiliation with the University, has resulted in
 an increase of 238.7% in outputs available on ChesterRep since 2014.

 CORA (Chester Open Research Alliance) is the University’s grassroots interest and advocacy
 group for Open Research and Open Data principles and practices in both research and teaching.
 It attracts members from all Faculties and multiple support departments. CORA is part of the UK
 Reproducibility Network (UKRN) and has responsibility for the University’s Open Research
 Statement. We are in the process of obtaining full institutional membership of UKRN to further
 reinforce the University’s research culture improvement agenda. Representatives from CORA also
 run monthly ReproducibiliTea events, which contribute to the network of 100 such events across
 the UK. This is an Open Science journal club, which is open to all research staff but has a specific
 focus on Early Career Researchers.

 The University is also committed to the principles of DORA (the Declaration on Research
 Assessment) and is committed to fulfilling the principles of the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity.

 Expanding Postgraduate Research Student Opportunities
 During the REF2021 period, the University has introduced three new DProfs (Medicine, Public
 Health, and Counselling and Psychotherapy), demonstrating its ongoing commitment to research
 that contributes to and shapes professional practice. The University’s MRes degree portfolio has
 been extended by the introduction of programmes on Biological Sciences, Gender Studies, and
 Psychology, for example. Our PGR population has increased by more than 20%, including the
 recruitment of our first PhD students in Engineering, Media Studies, and Modern Languages.

 Increasing Grant Capture
 In 2014, the University identified grant capture as a key priority, and subsequently improved
 infrastructure to support this (see Section 4). There have been notable successes in UoA3 (Allied
 Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy), UoA12 (Engineering), and UoA31
 (Theology and Religious Studies). The University also developed a new approach, the Chester
 Grant Support Initiative (CGSI), which was formulated in conjunction with the Demand
 Management Policy. This scheme, involving workshops, and internal and external peer review and
 mentoring, was trialled in Unit 31. Their grant capture, totalling £401k between 2008 and 2013,
 has risen to circa £2.5m between 2014 and 2020. This has led to our commitment to extend this
 support across the University.

 Investment in staff
 The wellbeing and development of staff is central to the Mission, Vision, and Foundational Values
 at the University of Chester. We are proud to provide a stimulating and inclusive environment,
 where diversity is welcomed, and equality is continually pursued. The support networks (for
 women, parents, carers, LGBT+, and disabled people), which are open to all of our University
 community, play an active role in development of policy and its impact.

 We have a longstanding active Equality Forum, chaired by a member of the University’s Strategic
 Executive Team, which represents its members and their needs during institution-wide decision-
 making. As an inaugural member of the group that organised the first Chester Pride in 2013, we
 have continued involvement in this annual event, supporting its growth from 2,500 attendees to
 over 15,000.


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In recognition of these activities, our Athena SWAN Bronze Award was renewed, we received the
 Navajo LGBTI Charter Mark, and the Bronze Award in the MoD’s Employer Recognition Scheme,
 and we are a Disability Confident Employer.

 We host an annual Diversity Festival, established in 2006, which positions equality and diversity
 at the centre of our agenda. Covering topics such as Neurodiversity, Money Mindfulness, Being A
 Part-Time Academic, and How to Make Professor, this event’s success resulted in the introduction
 of the Research Festival in 2018. Nearly 700 people have attended events and workshops on
 subjects such as diversity and equality in the research environment, and approaches to grant
 capture. The event provides an opportunity for staff to interact with external stakeholders and
 regional organisations, giving the University an input into the regional economy and local priorities.

 Researching Equality and Diversity
 The University is committed to equality and diversity in our research activity, in the service of
 society and the economy, aligning with and promoting our Mission and identity. We support a rich
 array of interdisciplinary research activities that promote and advance understanding of equality
 and diversity and marginalised groups, including through supporting research projects on sexuality
 and identity, and publications on disability and mental health. In 2015, we established the Institute
 for Gender Studies, exploring questions of gender equality and inequalities, which fosters
 interdisciplinarity internally and attracts high profile national and international speakers. The
 Institute benefits from the longstanding association between the Equality and Human Rights
 Commission, and the departments of Law, and Theology and Religious Studies.

 Strategy Beyond 2021
 The University’s ‘Citizen Student’ strategy seeks to equip staff and students with the skills and
 knowledge to be ‘confident world citizens’. Through our vision for ‘teaching-led research’, the
 institution aims to ensure that research is embedded in all aspects of University life, and that all
 students are encouraged to engage in research activities and develop research skills, through co-
 creation where appropriate. Alongside this, and in support of the research agenda for the next five
 years, the University will establish research clusters aligned with the Core Themes with which staff
 and students will identify. These will:
     • promote Chester’s distinctive research priorities
     • foster increased collaborative interdisciplinary, and multidisciplinary research activities,
          while preserving existing foci in single subject research
     • facilitate increased PGR recruitment, whilst continuing to ensure access to a rich and
          comprehensive research environment
     • provide space for PGR training, and support development of transferable skills for roles
          outside the institution
     • focus engagement with industry, public sector bodies, and the wider economy to facilitate
          a clear impact agenda
     • develop clear, systematic and well-understood decision-making principles to underpin the
          allocation of research resources between competing activities
     • identify priority areas to be supported through the CGSI
     • ensure that all staff remain engaged in research activities and our infrastructure is
          developed to support this

 3. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The University of Chester prides itself on employing exceptional staff who bring a wealth of
 different skills and experience, and are emboldened to be innovative and excel at all their
 academic activities. We are committed to building a community of skilled and confident members
 of society who embrace the University’s mission to care about, and contribute to, the diverse
 communities and environments across the globe. Undergraduate student numbers underpin the
 academic sustainability of all areas, and our research environment is strengthened by our
 commitment to engage with students at all levels of study.

                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 In line with academic contracts, we consider the relationship between teaching and research to
 be symbiotic, and have established a programme of development activities that supports staff to
 achieve equilibrium:
      • A workload management system that supports academics in balancing teaching and
         research responsibilities
      • Training and development opportunities, including, but not limited to:
             o Mentoring and workshops for early career researchers
             o Support with first publications
             o Progression after PhD completion
             o Identifying future career pathways
      • Internal funding schemes, including:
             o Research leave application process
             o Conference participation
      • Grant writing and grant management support
      • Access to resource, knowledge, and guidance from organisations such as UKRI, UKRIO,
         and Research Professional

 These support mechanisms are identified, advanced, and evidenced through the Performance
 and Development Planning (PDP) review processes. These identify and satisfy real needs, which
 in turn positively impact on our equality and diversity measures, as well as staff satisfaction. For
 example, the process identified numerous requests for support to progress from Senior Lecturer
 to Professor, whereby the University introduced Associate Professorships. As a result, since 2014
 40 Personal Chairs have been established and 66 Associate Professors have been appointed, of
 which 32% and 48%, respectively, were women.

 Following the success of this, over the next five years we intend to introduce Academic
 Professional Researcher schemes to focus strategically on development of early- and mid-career
 researchers.

 Professor Eunice Simmons was appointed as Vice Chancellor in 2020. Since then, a Race
 Equality Challenge Group has been established, which has produced positive change in the
 institution, as well as a set of interview competency questions designed to ensure we hire a diverse
 range of staff who value and promote diversity and equality across all aspects of the University.

 An important development since REF2014 has been an increase in SMART target setting and
 monitoring in relation to research activities in staff PDPs, which enables university and local
 research strategies to be more effectively implemented and monitored. In several areas, a process
 of application for QR funded research leave was introduced, with independent review panels
 awarding time and evaluating outcomes, resulting in the publication of higher quality research
 outputs.

 Support and Training for PGR Students
 Since REF2014, the University has strategically created around 40 doctoral opportunities by
 writing PhD studentships into funding applications, as part of our approach to sustainable PGR
 student development. For example, we introduced the ‘Sustainable Futures’ scheme, and the
 ‘ECOInnovation’ bursary scheme in collaboration with Lancaster University. We will develop and
 build upon these to ensure that support for PGR students aligns to the research clusters and Core
 Themes.

 The University has implemented an innovative range of activities focused on academic formation
 and career-readiness. Our University-wide annual PGR Conference, and many seminars and
 workshops (often provided at Faculty and Department level), receive positive feedback from our
 students. Themes include: publishing from your thesis, applying for grants, constructing an
 academic CV, and preparing for your first job interview. In the current REF period, successful PGR
 candidates have secured academic posts at Cambridge, Chester, Durham, Liverpool Hope,
 Leeds, Manchester, Warwick, Winchester, and York, as well as many international universities.

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Our DProf programmes are delivered through a combination of live training events, research
 seminars, and one-to-one supervision aimed at developing research professionals to become
 leaders in their respective fields. Many of these programmes reflect our distinctive heritage and
 ongoing commitment to vocational education. Many of these students have, as a result of their
 doctorates, gained national leadership roles in their organisations. Others have gained academic
 posts in Cambridge, Belfast and Maynooth, for example.

 Diversifying the PGR student body
 The University of Chester recognises that a diverse student body better represents national and
 international interests, as well as the varied global communities and environments. We have
 committed to diversifying our PGR student body through an effective pipeline from undergraduate
 study for students from a wide range of backgrounds, as well as through DProfs. Undergraduate
 programmes have been adapted to reflect our research foci, incorporating research skills training
 and enhanced exposure to the University’s research environment, which facilitates this pipeline.
 Institutional data from 2013-2018 shows that our undergraduates from POLAR groups 1-3 and
 IMD 1-3 are at least as likely to enter PGR study as those from groups 4-5. The Faculty of Science
 and Engineering has secured increased numbers of international PGR students. The University’s
 Race Equality Challenge Group is taking action to ensure a more ethnically and racially diverse
 PGR student body, with the long-term goal of wider diversification of the academic community as
 a whole.

 During the current REF period, the average proportion of female PGR students has been 54%,
 compared to 48% nationally. We also cater for a broad range of ages, having recruited 220
 students over the age of 60.

 We facilitate a number of PGR projects on equality and diversity questions, averaging more than
 15 students per year pursuing an MRes in Gender Studies, with PhD and DProf students across
 the University pursuing projects in relation to religion, sexuality, gender identity, disability,
 dementia, and mental health.

 Supporting Post-Doctoral Researchers
 The University continues to invest in fixed-term post-doctoral positions, with additional funding
 via external grant capture, to provide opportunities for post-doctoral candidates to transition into
 academic posts. Through support of research projects linked to one or more of the Equality Act’s
 protected characteristics, we have been empowered to successfully recruit a more diverse post-
 doctoral researcher body. This is a further expression of the University’s commitment to forming
 a new generation of diverse academics, and we are proud that former appointees secured
 academic posts in institutions such as Birmingham, Bradford, Exeter, Lancaster, Leeds Trinity,
 and University of Wales Trinity St David, as well as one who was awarded a UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship at the University of Liverpool.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income Strategy
 Within the current REF period, the University has been awarded £11.5m in externally funded
 research grants. More than 60% sat within UoA3, and 13 UoAs achieved more than £100k,
 including 8 that received in excess of £250k. In line with our strategy, the CGSI is set to be further
 developed over the next 5 years to increase research income across all UoAs, and our two new
 Faculties also provide a notable opportunity for advanced growth. The CGSI will continue to focus
 strategically on funding opportunities providing grant development support, facilitation of peer
 review (complemented by external expertise), as well as pre-award costing and post-award
 monitoring. This approach, supplemented by investment in Research Grant Development from
 2020, will be key to achieving the University’s aims of increasing grant capture over the next 5
 years.



                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Investing in Research
 During the current REF period, the University of Chester has invested nearly four times as much,
 from other sources and in support of research, as we received as a result of REF2014. A significant
 proportion of the annual QR funding is available for the UoAs to utilise according to their priorities.
 For example, UoA4 attended ACT-enhanced communication skills training, UoA5 funded travel to
 International conferences, UoA14 funded a Research Assistant post, UoA31 supported grant
 capture, and UoA25 introduced short periods of research leave for the first time. A proportion of
 this funding is ringfenced for impact activities and is supplemented by further investment in
 Knowledge Exchange from HEIF and other University sources. The focus of the remaining funding
 is on academic staff research time, and enabling investment in new research initiatives. Most
 recently, we have strategically directed investment into cross-faculty interdisciplinary research
 investigating the impact of Covid-19.

 The investments we make are becoming increasingly focused on interdisciplinary research,
 spanning UoAs and Faculties, and aligned to the Core Themes. For example, research into ‘flood
 disadvantaged’ community-led approaches to flood risk resulted in a more sustainable Flood Risk
 Management strategy, and aligns with the Core Theme of Sustainability and Environment.

 Since 2014, we have invested a further £19.9m in major infrastructure projects that support
 research and innovation, and engaged in significant collaborations and partnerships that enhance
 the facilities for research whilst contributing to wider community engagement. Upgraded
 laboratories, libraries, equipment, technology, and facilities have enabled us not only to sustain,
 but also build upon, our aim to diversify our areas of research.

 Facilities Promoting External Collaboration

 Specialist Support Centres
 The University brings focus and collaboration to key projects through support centres and groups
 across 7 research areas: Contextual Behavioural Science; Psychology of Health; Thriving;
 Functional Foods; Ageing, Mental Health and Veterans; and Education, Creativity and Arts
 through Practice. These have established wider research collaborations and augmented research
 methodologies, through fostering relationships with local organisations such as Storyhouse and
 Liverpool’s Tate Gallery, as well as professional bodies and internationally-renowned
 partnerships.

 The aims of the Westminster Centre for Research in Ageing, Mental Health and Veterans are to
 respond to the challenges of an ageing world to promote innovation in health and social care
 services for older people, and provide subject matter expertise for the betterment of military
 veterans and their families’ wellbeing. Through the Centre, we collaborate with key partners
 including local councils, SSAFA, and the Royal British Legion, as well as partnerships with higher
 education institutions, businesses, third sector organisations including charities, veterans’
 associations, and the military population.

 Storyhouse is one of the country’s most successful arts buildings, incorporating a library, theatre,
 cinema, community hub, cultural centre, and restaurant. It provides a location where our research
 engages with diverse communities through activities such as Chester Literature Festival,
 Storyhouse Women, Blink Festival (for new parents), Love Later Life and The Great Get Together
 (for older communities), Kaleidoscope Festival (for adults with a disability), Young Takeover (a
 forum for young artists to display their talents internationally), and Storyhouse Festival of
 Languages. This partnership led, amongst other achievements, to a Senior Lead in Cultural
 Education and Research secondment, which has created cross-agency and pan-university public
 and community engagement activities.

 Thornton Science Park
 The ‘triple helix’ interaction between industry, academia, and Government at Thornton Science
 Park, aligning to the Core Theme of Regional Economy, has promoted innovation, collaboration,
 knowledge transfer, and strong economic benefits. As well as hosting our cutting-edge facilities

                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (such as the University’s high-performance computing cluster, comprising 312 cores divided
 amongst 17 computer nodes linked via high-speed infiniband interconnects) and staff, it facilitates
 our collaboration with Alderley Park; the UK’s largest single-site life science campus, and
 contributes to the Northern Powerhouse. Located on this site, our new Energy Centre seeks to
 promote growth and acceleration in the development and exploitation of technologies for the
 energy market, aligning to the Core Theme of Environment and Sustainability. This includes new
 types of photovoltaic solar cells and new algorithms for load-balancing on micro-grids, as well as
 developments in low-power motor drives, innovative electrical energy storage solutions, and non-
 electrical energy systems.

 Riverside Innovation Centre is the University’s home to local start-up businesses, and provides
 opportunities for research spin-outs. These individuals and commercial companies can take
 advantage of the business growth programme, as well as many other business-related projects.

 NoWFOOD technical centre offers a comprehensive package of support helping SMEs as well
 as providing research and development for established food and drink manufacturers.

 Our strategic partnership with Reaseheath College, a land-based institution, enables joint
 activities involving research into animal behaviour and welfare, ethics in animal research, and
 food.

 Our well-established partnerships with international institutions via the Study Abroad Team, and
 memberships of Erasmus and the International Student Exchange Program (ISEP), enable
 students to undertake research across the globe, from the USA to Australia.

 Library Resources
 The University has 9 libraries, supported by specialist librarians. £5.5m of capital investment since
 2014 has improved these facilities to further support research staff and students, including
 provision of bookable offices and meeting spaces, and specialist equipment such as high-
 performance computing, plus an enhanced PGR study area providing facilities for individual study,
 group work, training and seminars, and upgraded IT facilities. Since REF2014, the number of
 accessible full-text journals has increased from 21,000 to 65,000. The e-book collection has
 increased from 19,000 to 750,000 titles, which has been vital for the high percentage of PGR
 students working at a distance.

 In addition to the team of Faculty Specialist Librarians, we have established a dedicated Research
 Support Team managed by a Research Support Librarian. The team provides a central service
 supporting cross-institutional research, managing the institutional repository, and working closely
 with the Research and Knowledge Transfer Office to support open access compliance, and ensure
 that it adheres to, as a minimum, the requirements of REF. A significant focus of the Research
 Support Team is the training and support of research staff and students: for example, in relation
 to IT, publications, information management, and PGR skills, in conjunction with the University
 Study Skills and Academic Quality and Enhancement teams.

 Institutional and Faculty Infrastructure
 Research activities across the University are supported and coordinated by our Research and
 Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO). RKTO is led by the Director of Research and Knowledge
 Transfer, and the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research and Innovation). With the aim of streamlining
 the route from research to impact and dissemination, RKTO provides support with identification of
 funding opportunities and guidance on funding applications, plus post-award project monitoring
 and reporting, as well as overseeing Research Ethics and Integrity, measures to support
 transparency and reproducibility, and Research Governance.

 Research in each Faculty is overseen by an Executive Dean (or delegated Deputy/Associate
 Dean). Support for research varies by Faculty, but includes Faculty-wide activities (e.g. research
 seminars, PGR symposia, and impact training workshops), ethics committees, funding to support
 conference attendance and grant capture, and impact-related activities. For example, in UoA20,

                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Faculty funding contributed to concrete changes in policy and practice that directly impacted on
 schools, universities, charities, and local authorities. In UoA33, research continues to impact upon
 the policy and practice of the European Parliament Anti-Racism and Diversity Intergroup. The
 interests of all faculties are represented at the University Research and Knowledge Transfer
 Committee, which reports to the University’s Governing Body. This is complemented by the
 Postgraduate Sub-Committee, which addresses the interests of both PGR and PGT students,
 enabling the student voice to contribute fully to the shaping of policy and processes pertaining to
 their student experience.

 Each UoA submitted by Chester to REF2021 has a named UoA Coordinator, who is a senior
 researcher associated with that UoA. RKTO supports UoA Coordinators by organising regular
 update meetings, discussing strategy, and providing review of, and assistance with, document
 preparation. RKTO also provides significant resource to support UoAs with expert peer review of
 outputs, impact case studies, and environment templates. This progresses and improves on the
 approach taken in previous REFs, and evidences the University’s ongoing commitment to
 improving research quality across all aspects of REF.




                                                                                              Page 9
