Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 1. Context and mission



The University of Dundee is a medium-sized civic institution with a compact and thriving city
campus and a University hospital. The University received its Royal Charter in 1967 and its origins
date back to 1881. Through collaborations and mergers, the University has evolved into a multi-
disciplinary institution spanning medical, health and life sciences, engineering and physical
sciences, social sciences, humanities, art and design.

The University’s core purpose is to transform lives locally and globally through the creation,
sharing and application of knowledge. In 2012, we codified our 25-year vision, entitled
Transforming Lives, seeking to become world-leading in our priority areas. Phased in five-year
implementation plans, the current Strategy to 2022 emphasises the mutuality of our research,
teaching, and knowledge exchange endeavours (Figure 1). Its central pursuit is the creation of a
high-performance community defined by excellence, integrity, valuing people, working together
and making a difference. We achieve scale and amplify impact by organising around four
interdisciplinary themes - Health and Wellbeing, Creativity and Design, Innovating Technology
and Social Justice – all congruent with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals.

Our commitment to translational research through industry partnerships, especially in both basic
and applied biomedical research, has earned us recognition as one of Europe’s most innovative
universities. We are known for major technological breakthroughs from keyhole surgery to space
technology, health informatics, new treatments for neglected tropical diseases and design-led
innovation. In 2014, we received our third Queen’s Anniversary Prize for excellence in forensic
anthropology and victim identification. We are globally connected and a member of the European
Universities Association whilst locally anchored in the regional growth agenda and being pivotal in
bringing the V&A Museum of Design to Dundee.

Our 3,280 staff include a research community of 461 Category A FTE and 667 research staff,
complemented by c. 770 postgraduate researchers (PGRs). Restructuring four Colleges into 10
academic Schools in 2015 has created greater internal connectivity. Schools are the academic
engines of the institution with considerable autonomy but porous boundaries promoting cross-
School collaboration. School research strategies are led by Associate Deans for Research (ADRs)
combining with Impact Champions, Directors of Doctoral Studies and Research Integrity Leads, all
benefitting from a centrally resourced Research and Innovation Service (RIS) and other
Directorates supporting research. University research strategy is led by the Vice Principal for
Research, Knowledge Exchange and Wider Impact (VPR) who sits on the University Executive
Group and Chairs the University Research and KE Committee (URKEC), which meets five times
per year and reports to the Senate.




                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




    Figure 1: Visualisation of the Strategy to 2022 integrating research, knowledge exchange
              and impact endeavour throughout the institutional mission



 2. Strategy

The University’s Strategy to 2022 sets out five strategic priorities across the research, KE and
wider impact continuum. These have driven activities within the current assessment period and will
inform the next five-year plan to 2027.

Priority 1: Build on research excellence to enhance performance and reputation
We are committed to enabling all our 16 UoAs submitted to REF2021 to deliver world-leading
research and impact. We were ranked in the World top 100 for research quality (Nature Index,
2019) and 14th in the world for the proportion of publications per FTE achieving citation rates in the
top 1% of their field (CWTS Leiden Ranking 2020). Excellence and critical mass is gained by
targeted investment and promoting interdisciplinary themes and external partnerships.

An Annual Research Review (ARR) was introduced in 2016 to ensure transparent and consistent
management of research excellence across the University. School-based ARR panels evaluate
output and impact quality, funding profiles, PGR supervision, engagement and esteem indicators.

                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Discipline-specific benchmarks are used in line with the Declaration on Research Assessment
(DORA) to which we are signatories. Developmental feedback is given to all staff whether
supporting promotion processes or prompting support interventions.

Targeted investment in our Baxter Fellowships Programme (2019) enabled 18 outstanding early-
career researchers to be appointed across eight UoAs - according to growth, capacity-building and
regeneration criteria. This programme is trialling the creation of a fast-track academic cohort, who
with augmented support and mentoring, are expected to achieve promotion to Reader or Chair
level within 10 years.

Priority 2: Embedding interdisciplinarity – promoting a vibrant research culture
All Schools are research active and contribute to one or more UoAs. Our flat structure and
compact campus promote a OneDundee approach of shared commitment to triple-intensity
across research, teaching and engagement. Embedding interdisciplinarity brings together
complementary perspectives orientated to real-world thematic challenges, viz:

   •   Understanding and improving health and well-being;
   •   Life-enhancing creativity and design;
   •   Innovating technological solutions to tomorrow’s problems;
   •   Promoting social change to enhance diversity, justice and socio-economic prosperity.




    Figure 2: Composition, size and relationships of UoAs submitted to REF2021, mapped
              against University’s interdisciplinary themes




                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Our research portfolio maps across these themes, with UoAs leading in their respective domain
areas and always alert to collaborative opportunities across the University (Figure 2). Promoting
synergies across disciplines has yielded numerous exciting new collaborations, such as:

   •   Significant expansion of translational and interdisciplinary research, particularly in
       neglected disease drug discovery, exemplified by the opening of the Discovery Centre for
       Translational and Interdisciplinary Research in 2014. This in turn enabled the creation of
       the Wellcome Centre for Anti-Infectives Research (WCAIR) in 2017 (£13.6 million).
   •   The Leverhulme Research Centre for Forensic Science since 2015 (£10 million) has
       stimulated collaboration across four Schools, and attracted further investment of £15 million
       through the Tay Cities Deal.

We launched the Dundee Interdisciplinary and Innovation Forum in 2017 seeking to
mainstream enterprise across the University. DIIF hosts 10-16 events with 300–450 participants
per year, which facilitate trust, confidence and formation of new consortia. An early exemplar of
this approach is the AHRC-funded InGAME (Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise)
consortium (£11.5 million, 2018-2023) centred on the Dundee computer games cluster forging a
new template for UK-wide games sector innovation. Greater critical mass has also been achieved
through new cross-unit research fora, such as the Arts and Humanities Research Institute
(UoAs 27, 28, 30) and the Institute of Social Science Research (UoAs 3, 4, 14, 17, 18, 20, 23)
with funded seminars, international scholars exchange, pump-priming funding and an Annual
Research Forum. Reflecting our commitment to policy engagement nearly a fifth (18.5%) of our
outputs for REF2021 are co-authored with corporate, government or professional bodies.

Priority 3: Embracing a One Dundee approach – strengthening partnerships
We are strengthening our research portfolio through success with programme grants and
collaborative projects. Engagement with Scottish Funding Council Research Pools, Innovation
Centres and UK Catapults supported capital investment in facilities such as the National
Phenotypic Screening Centre (NPSC) built on extant collaborations between the Scottish
Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA) and the University of Oxford.

We are committed to fostering an open research environment through increased advocacy, and
centralised support for all staff, including PGRs. Our Open Research Policy ensures that all
outputs, datasets and PGR theses are open access via the Discovery Portal, the University’s
online Research Information System. We promote the accessibility of outputs through dedicated
social media channels, embedding training, skills, and KE through information sessions
complementing annual Open Access Week events. Data management is key to the open research
policy, guided by compliance with the Concordat for Open Research Data, centrally supported
with tailored storage solutions and advice underpinned by the University’s Policy to Govern the
Management of Research Data.

Integrity is one of the University’s core values, and we are guided by the principles of the
Concordat to Support Research Integrity with oversight by the Research Governance and
Policy Sub-Committee. We have developed online research integrity training, which is mandatory
for PGRs and new supervisors and since 2016 has been licensed across the sector. Research
Integrity Leads have been appointed in all Schools with Deputy Leads and a network of Research
Integrity Advisors in larger Schools. In 2019, we co-founded the Scottish Research Integrity
Network and, in 2020, hosted one of five Wellcome Trust ‘Re-imagine Research Culture’ events.



                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Priority 4: Advance our Values – enhancing engagement through knowledge exchange
We aim to grow our global reputation for innovative translational research as the world’s most
influential scientific research institution in pharmaceuticals (Clarivate Analytics 2017), and 5th in
the UK for turning research into world-changing companies (Octopus Ventures 2020). We achieve
this by nurturing a culture of innovation, invention, IP protection, licensing and investment in spin-
out companies, such as Exscientia Ltd, an internationally significant high-growth spinout. An
exemplar of our approach to synergising discovery research and translational partnerships is the
Drug Discovery Unit (DDU), a unique facility akin to a biotech company within a university, helping
to treat neglected diseases such as malaria and visceral leishmaniasis.

Widely regarded as a model of academic-industry collaboration, the Division of Signal
Transduction Therapy (DSTT) within the MRC Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit
(PPU), has thrived for over 20 years. In this time, it has attracted over £65 million of investment
and helped develop dozens of drugs for clinical use, including cancer and Parkinson's Disease.
This innovation culture is fostering new advances, such as entirely new modalities of therapeutics
based on PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras (PROTACS) through a significant and expanding
collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, the world’s largest private family-owned pharmaceutical
company.

Over the latest REF period, the University achieved commercialisation income (licencing and trade
sales of spinouts) of £14.4 million, raised £100 million of investment in our spinout portfolio,
created four new spinouts, three staff and 27 student start-ups and agreed 57 licence deals. The
establishment of a dedicated Centre for Entrepreneurship in 2016 embedded a culture of
entrepreneurship by providing staff and PGRs with training and access to the first Scottish
university-based business accelerator programme. It has seed-funded five research staff and 13
PGR ventures whilst developing skills of 100+ staff and students every year through the eight-
week extra-curricular Enterprise Challenge programme.

Priority 5: Intensify our impact locally and globally through wider engagement
The University is anchored in the Dundee city-region driving over £740 million a year of economic
impact and supporting 1 in every 12 jobs in Tayside with our activities. This priority positions the
University as an agent of transformation, locally and globally, contributing to prosperity and
wellbeing, maximising cultural, societal and economic benefits.

We are aligned to the Research to Recovery ambitions of the UK R&D Roadmap by connecting
local strengths to global opportunities. This includes delivering on the £40 million investment won
through the Tay Cities Deal to create a Biomedical Innovation Hub enabling a step change in
innovation-led growth in the regional economy through new spinout companies, job creation and
inward investment in the biotech and medtech sectors. This will be complemented by JustTech, the
world’s first innovation hub for forensic science, creating a new growth sector enabling reliable
science to be used in the delivery of justice worldwide. Finally, we will continue our long-term
strategic partnership with the James Hutton Institute, one of the UK’s largest land-based research
facilities, where our Division of Plant Sciences is co-located, which will see us engaged with the
establishment of a world-leading International Barley Hub and Advanced Vertical Plant Growth
Centre (£62 million), tackling food security and contributing to the Net Zero agenda.

The V&A Museum of Design opened in 2018 as the centrepiece of a £1 billion waterfront
redevelopment in Dundee, the UK’s only UNESCO City of Design. The University of Dundee was a
leading actor in bringing the V&A project to fruition, building on the long-standing reputation of our
leading School of Art and Design, and flagship programmes such as the AHRC KE Hub Design in

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Action, (£5 million, 2012-2017). As founding partners in V&A Dundee we ensure continued
engagement through Board membership and joint curatorial and research-design manager
appointments. In 2020, we signed another strategic partnership agreement with the Dundee-based
Michelin Scotland Innovation Parc, endowed with £50 million investment funds promoting
businesses supporting sustainable mobility and pursuit of Net Zero.

In relation to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals we ranked 20th worldwide in the
inaugural 2019 ‘THE Impact Rankings’ based on indicators reflecting research, outreach and
stewardship. We were recipients of the UN’s Risk Award 2019 for the impact achieved in
advancing flood-resilient floating homes in coastal Bangladesh through the Centre for Water Law,
Policy and Science, the UK’s only Category 2 UNESCO Centre, and the only interdisciplinary
water centre of its kind in the world. We hosted the WHO Oral Health and Craniofacial Anomalies
Collaborating Centre until 2018 and continue to inform WHO policy as an expert advisory partner.

Our global reach has been boosted by Global Challenges Research Funding (GCRF). We were
awarded a £ 7 million NIHR Global Health Unit in 2017 to set up a major UK-India clinical
partnership to combat diabetes. Our GCRF block grant enabled us to build capacity and
partnerships for future ODA-related research and supported 70 projects involving over 100
academic staff from all 10 Schools working in 26 Low- and Middle-Income Countries. Our GCRF
block grant enabled us to build capacity and partnerships for future ODA-related research and
supported 70 projects, including Global Scholarships, exchanges and pilot projects, involving over
100 academic staff from all 10 Schools working in 26 Low- and Middle-Income Countries.



 3. People

3.1 Staffing Strategy – Enable our people to flourish
People are at the heart of the University Strategy’s to be a High-Performance Community (Figure
1). We aspire to attract, nurture and retain the brightest talent from across the globe and have
designed our research environment accordingly. The annual Objective Setting and Review (OSaR)
process is the centrepiece of our staff development process. It draws together multiple inputs,
including the ARR, enabling colleagues and line managers to evaluate contribution against the
excellence agenda and inform personal development plans.

Across most Schools new academic staff are appointed on a three-year probation contract, which
is made permanent (confirmed) with the demonstration of satisfactory progress. Reflecting
Principal Investigators and research group cultures in the Schools of Life Sciences and Medicine
both employ an alternative five year ‘Fellowship-based’ tenure-track process. In all cases academic
and research staff are provided with clear objectives, resources, and support. All staff have access
to TRAM (Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme) a cross-institutional mentoring
scheme established jointly by the Universities of Dundee and St Andrews 14 years ago whose
success has grown to incorporate six HEIs.

The University has a ‘Periodic Leave’ policy, which provides one semester for each three-year
period of service, subject to a maximum of one year’s leave on any one occasion. Recognition for
sustained contribution to the University’s research mission is considered through Annual Review
(Academic Promotion) and Merit Awards for professional services staff. Over the assessment
period, a TRAC-compliant Workload Allocation Model was introduced ensuring that all Teaching
and Research staff have at least 30% of protected research time.


                                                                                            Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
We support the promotion and improvement of the health, safety and wellbeing of our staff and
students through a suite of University Work-Life Balance policies, procedures and guidance, which
are regularly reviewed. Flexible and remote working is institutionally supported and managed by
Schools involving tools such as a resilience package, sickness absence and ill health policies,
carer’s leave and in-house occupational health support. We are committed to equal opportunities
for staff on part-time and fixed-term contracts and provide relevant training and Careers Advice
Service. Our fixed term compared to permanent staff contracts in the researcher category have
decreased from 56% to 42% between 2014/15 and 2019/20. We engage Capita biennially to
survey levels of staff satisfaction biennially and most recently ranked 6th out of 31 HEIs as an
Employer of Choice.

3.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) – Advance our values
The University’s commitment and advancement of EDI is inspired by our core purpose and values
framework, informed and supported by our Equality Outcomes Plan. We have focussed on the
Protected Characteristics of gender, race, disability and LGBT equality as recognised by Athena
SWAN awards achieved at both institutional and school levels (Institutional Bronze 2014 and
2017). We are a member of the Race Equality Charter and will submit for an award in July 2021.
We have been a Stonewall Diversity Champion since 2016 and have evidenced significant
progress in the benchmarking Stonewall Workplace Equality Index for LGBT inclusion in the
workplace. Sharing experiences across these various networks is critical to progressing our
Equality Outcomes.

We promote EDI by mandatory online training for all staff and by recording protected
characteristics as part of the recruitment, probation and promotion process. Our Dignity at Work
and Study policy codifies our commitment not to tolerate discrimination, harassment or bullying.
Support is provided through our Harassment Advisers Network. The REF2021 Code of Practice
was developed in accordance with the aims and objectives of the University’s Equality Outcomes
Plan 2017–2021 and SFC Outcome Agreement meeting the Public Sector Equality Duty.
Consistent with our REF Code of Practice bespoke training relating to unconscious bias was
developed for all staff involved in REF management.

3.3 Early Career Researcher (ECR) Support – Grow & diversify our researcher community
Reflecting our commitment to growing talent within the University, 22% of our Category A staff
meet the REF definition of ECR. The University has held the HR Excellence in Research award
since 2011 and our Year-8 renewal was achieved in February 2020. We recently signed the
revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and are compliant with
the QAA Code of Practice for Research Degree Programmes. Implementation plans are driven
by the Career Development for Research Staff (CDRS) Steering Group, chaired by the VPR, which
includes representatives from the Research Staff Association. Two dedicated development officers
support compliance with the Concordat and harmonise training and employability provision.

The University endorses UKRI recommendations of the minimum number of 80 hours annually for
development activities. We are a member of Vitae, UKCGE and Advanced HE, which provides
access to career support and broader experiences complementing the University’s Researcher
Development Programme within the comprehensive programme provided by the Occupational &
Professional Development (OPD) unit. The range of face-to-face and online training maps to
Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework with excellent levels of uptake since 2016 from PGR
(almost 50%) and research staff (over 35%).



                                                                                           Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Bespoke careers training is available through our Careers Advice Services and wider development
opportunities are offered by Schools and Professional Services, as well as access to external
Writing Retreats, Vitae events and national programmes such as Voice of Young Science,
Converge Challenge, and the interdisciplinary Scottish Crucible. The QAA Enhancement-led
Institutional Review (ELIR, 2018/19) commended support for the PGR experience through
initiatives such as the Thesis Bootcamp.

The University’s research degree programmes are underpinned by the Research Degree Quality
Code. This includes mandatory training and accreditation of research degree supervisors, and
monitoring through structured annual programme reviews, enhanced by feedback from PGRs
through the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). All PGRs have a second
supervisor and meet with a Thesis Monitoring Committee at least once every semester and have
opportunities and training for teaching and demonstrating duties. Support and representation
systems are in place in partnership with the Dundee University Students Association (DUSA) to
ensure effective student welfare and engagement with policy development.

We have a large, diverse and vibrant community of PGRs, and host Doctoral Training
Programmes (MRC, Wellcome), Partnerships (BBSRC, ESRC, AHRC) and Collaborative
Centres (EPSRC, NERC) as well recruiting top international talent through the China Scholarship
Council Programme. In 2018/19 we created a suite of new Doctorates in Professional Practice,
presently available in 8 out of 10 Schools, and began the ‘100 Projects’ campaign to enhance
quality and volume of PGR recruitment to the University’s interdisciplinary themes. We funded
‘Global Citizens’ Scholarships through our GCRF award. To build a more cohesive interdisciplinary
connected community, increase PGR numbers and enhance the student experience, we
established a Doctoral Academy in 2019 coordinating all aspects of the research lifecycle of
PGRs and supervisory support. The investment has created designated offices and training space
and a secretariat (3.7 FTE) led by a professorial Academic Director.



 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

To achieve our vision, we provide the infrastructure, physical, digital and human, for researchers to
achieve excellent research and innovation outcomes. It contributes to our institutional strategy
(Figure 1) and enables us to achieve our strategic research priorities to intensify our impact,
enhance our reputation and performance, enhancing our One Dundee approach.

4.1 Physical Infrastructure
The University has world-class facilities, from laboratories to studios and exhibition space,
archives, collections and libraries. Capital investment of £30.6 million has increased access to
state-of-the-art laboratory space across the institution since 2014. This includes £13 million to
upgrade the School of Art & Design studios and library and over £2 million investment in the main
Library and Learning Centre (LLC) for dedicated PGR space. Along with capital investment, both
locations benefit from co-location of LLC and IT Services research support teams. The co-location
of physical, computational and biological sciences in the Discovery Centre (previous UK Research
Partnership Investment Fund) received further University capital investment of £3.1 million
expanding capabilities in anti-infectives drug development. We have also generated significant
income of £10.5 million from philanthropic donations enabling targeted infrastructure investment for
ECRs in the Jacqui Woods Cancer Centre, to purchase magnetic resonance guided focused
ultrasound (MRgFUS) technology treating essential tremor caused by neurological disease and for


                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
facial reconstruction facilities based in the Centre for Anatomy and Human Identification supporting
collaboration with forensic scientists and dentists.

Our specialist facilities and services are available to all staff and external users, exemplified by the
Centre for Advanced Scientific Technologies hosting cutting-edge technology platforms including
the Dundee Imaging Facility, proteomics, microscopy, oligonucleotide synthesis, flow-cytometry
and X-ray crystallography, which has enabled our world-leading cell signalling and drug
development research and our biomedical and imaging research in engineering. The proteomics
platform, for example, has been a key enabler of industrial partnerships (GSK, DSTT consortium,
Boehringer Ingelheim) and creation of one related spin-out company.

4.2 Digital Infrastructure
To improve access for the internal and external research community, some facilities and areas of
technical support have been centralised, such as the High-Performance Computing facilities,
achieving more consistent technical support and enhancing technical staff retention and career
development. The Health Informatics Centre (HIC) specialises in health data linkage and is the first
centre in Scotland to offer an ISO27001-accredited Safe-Haven for secure collaborative research
using sensitive eHealth data. This supports personalised (precision) medicine research and
underpins our involvement with UK-Health Data Research (UK-HDR) uniting health data across the
UK.

Since 2017, we have invested c. £20 million to strengthen digital capability and cyber security by
integrating our many information systems and digital workflows into a single cloud-based solution
(OneUniversity). Phase 1 of the ‘Research & Projects’ workstream is now live and when phase 2
is completed, it will provide an end-to-end capability for funding opportunities and supporting bid
submission, ethical approval, post-award grant management, engagement and commercialisation.
Researchers will be able to monitor their projects as they progress through their lifecycle, with
associated strategic planning benefits provided through real-time reporting and dashboards.

Our online Research Information System, Discovery, led by LLC , integrates Registry, HR and
research finance data in a public institutional repository, linked to staff and PGR webpages to
present a comprehensive picture of outputs, data, activities and media interactions evidencing
worldwide collaborations and impact. We have established a Digital Roadmap Working Group
recognising more can be done to enable sharing, storage and integration of research data and
enhance our digital research infrastructure in line with the UK National Data Strategy. This has
gained further momentum in step with the digital learning environment created in response to
COVID-19 working practices.

4.3 Human Infrastructure
Following restructuring in 2015 an integrated University Research Office (URO) was established to
coordinate Schools and Directorates research support under the strategic leadership of the VPR.
The URO supports research strategy, consortia building for strategic bids, funder liaison, industry
engagement, IP protection, licensing, spinouts, contract negotiation and commercialisation. The
research support team concentrates on open access, digital resources and responsible use of
research metrics. It supports award set-up and management, research policy, integrity, ethics and
the Code of Practice underpinning our REF submission. HR & OPD provide staffing strategy,
researcher career development and EDI functions, whilst External Relations coordinate the Public
Engagement Forum.



                                                                                                 Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
To enable clinical research in collaboration with NHS Tayside, the Tayside Medical Science Centre
(TASC) brings together facilities and expertise, including the Clinical Research Imaging Facility, the
Tayside Biorepository and the Tayside Clinical Trials Unit, fully registered with UKCRC, supporting
approximately 20 trials at any one time. It underpins the work of the Academic Health Science
Partnership established in 2014 as a catalyst to deliver healthcare improvement research in
collaboration with the NHS. Achievements include NHS-university-industry partnerships such as
with Storz and Medtronic to advance medical devices development and surgical skills training.

4.4 Income
We have the third highest proportion of research-related income (c. 40% to total income) of any UK
university, with research grants and contracts income averaging c. £75 million per year over the
last 5 years and Quality-Related (QR) research funding, in Scotland equating to Research
Excellence Grant, exceeding £25 million per year. To support our ambitions for sustainable growth
of our research economy we aim to further diversify our funding sources and prioritise large-scale
opportunities aligned to our interdisciplinary themes and so selectively consolidating existing
strengths and targeting investment in priority growth areas (e.g. as set out by the UKRI R&D
roadmap and Horizon Europe). We aim to achieve similar successes as the WCAIR, working in
partnership with UK-HDR, the AHRC InGAME cluster and as part of UK/Scottish Government
regional investments such as the Tay Cities Deal.

4.5 Impact
To support the University’s strategic focus on research with impact, the University has invested in a
centralised role of Research Impact Manager working closely with Impact Champions in Schools,
who coordinate informal support. RIS provide cradle-to-grave support for commercialisation and
industry engagement to continue to grow our translational potential. We provide business incubator
space and fund academic salaries during the development phase of their spinouts.

Public engagement is essential to our vision to transform lives locally and globally, supported by
the Public Engagement Forum to share knowledge and best practice and our Public Engagement
Strategy. We provide training and recognition through our promotions criteria, in workload
allocation modelling and in appraisal and promotion processes.

We have long-standing Public Engagement platforms and awards, including the University’s
annual Stephen Fry Awards for Public Engagement, established in 2012, which are presented
during the Discovery Days, a large annual programme of engagement through public talks,
activities in primary and secondary schools, and open-door events. Our Saturday Series is the
longest running public lecture series in Scotland.

Our long-term investment was recognised in 2020, when we became the first university in
Scotland, and only the third in the UK, to receive a Gold Engage Watermark from the National
Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE). Awarded for exceptional strategic
leadership and partnership working, this institutional award builds on Faculty-level Gold awards
received by the School of Life Sciences (2017) and the Leverhulme Research Centre for Forensic
Science (2019).




                                                                                             Page 10
