Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 1. Context and mission

 History

 Founded as Woolwich Polytechnic in 1890, the University of Greenwich has a proud history of
 high-quality teaching and outstanding research, with strong links to business and its local
 communities in Greenwich, Avery Hill and Medway.

 Our original focus on higher technical education expanded in 1970 following a merger with part
 of Hammersmith College of Art and the incorporation of Dartford College (1976). Avery Hill
 College of Education (1985) and parts of Goldsmiths College and the City of London College
 followed, and University status was granted in 1992. Further incorporations, including Thames
 College of Health Care Studies (1993) and the Natural Resources Institute (1996), led to our
 current configuration and offering.

 Today

 Today the University of Greenwich (“University”) educates over 21,500 students in the UK, of
 whom nearly 6,500 are studying at postgraduate level. It also has a sizeable transnational
 activity (TNE) with over 15,000 students studying wholly overseas through c30 partnership
 organisations across 19 countries.

 We offer a diverse educational curriculum in four Faculties distributed across three campuses.
 The Faculty of Business (including business management and economics subjects) and the
 Faculty of Liberal Arts and Sciences (including Schools of Design, Law & Criminology,
 Humanities and Computer Sciences & Mathematics) are based at the Greenwich Maritime
 campus.

 The Faculty of Engineering and Sciences (incorporating Schools of Engineering, Science and
 the Natural Resources Institute (NRI)) is located at the Medway campus and the Faculty of
 Education, Health and Human Sciences (with Schools in each of these subjects and the Institute
 for Lifecourse Development (ILD)) operates across all three campuses, although primarily at
 Avery Hill.

 In Medway, we are a partner in Universities at Medway (with Kent and Canterbury Christ
 Church) occupying a shared campus at Chatham Maritime. Each institution offers its own range
 of full and part-time courses, drawing on its own individual academic strengths. Library, sports
 and social facilities are shared, providing academics and students with access to a first-class
 educational environment.

 We employ around 1,500 staff; approximately 50% occupy academic roles and 50%
 professional/administrative roles. Just over half of academic staff are considered to have a
 significant responsibility for research (SRR) with staff selecting and pursing a research career
 pathway as part of the University academic framework.

 Annual turnover is c£215M pa, with research and enterprise revenues accounting for over 12%.

 The University is returning staff into 13 units of assessment, reflecting its broad educational
 provision. This is slightly fewer than in REF2014 due to the reprofiling and aggregating of some
 research units.

 We have a proud tradition of fostering diversity and providing education and research
 opportunities to disadvantaged groups. Over 55% of our undergraduate student population
 comes from areas of deprivation and 53% of our undergraduates, 45% of postgraduates and
 48% of our staff are BAME.

                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 The University has a strong engagement with a broad spectrum of businesses, charities, and
 industry groups. These are typically micro, small and medium-sized entities primarily in
 construction, engineering and the scientific sectors at Medway; the finance, service sector and
 visitor economy at Greenwich; and the public sector, in particular health and education, across
 all campuses.

 We work closely with our local councils and actively participate in business groups including the
 London & South East Chambers of Commerce as well as academic touchpoints such as the
 University Alliance and Universities UK.

 We have a ‘Silver’ institutional award in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) and are
 rated ‘Good’ by Ofsted. Our impact and alumni are widely-recognised and we have received five
 prestigious Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for NRI’s work in Africa on Food Security, Sustainable
 Pest Control and Tackling the Causes of Poverty.

 We are a modern university with an established focus on teaching, vocational education and
 serving our communities, as well as an active, growing and broad international research profile.

 Mission

 Making Greenwich Great II, our Strategic Plan 2017- 22, sets out our mission of transforming
 lives through inspired teaching and research. The second phase of a ten-year strategy, it has
 five additional strategic objectives:

    •    Enhancing science and society through inspiring research and enterprise
    •    Creating engaging campus environments and services
    •    Supporting and developing staff
    •    Internationalising Greenwich
    •    Enhancing student employability

 The University considers itself to be ‘research-informed’. Knowledge from our research
 endeavours, and the associated opportunities to engage with research, is reflected in taught
 provision and further reinforced through external profile to positively impact stakeholder and
 community groups.

 A key component of that research profile is provided by NRI which:

     •   is the recipient of an Expanding Excellence in England (E3) award
     •   leads a Centre for Doctoral Training in UK Food Systems
     •   received a Strength in Places award to enhance horticulture, food and drink industries in
         Kent and Medway.

 NRI, together with the emergent ILD and other nascent Institutes/coordinated Centres, embodies
 our research ethos and ambition to aggregate cognate activity into multi-disciplinary groupings to
 achieve the critical mass needed to make significant contributions to the societal and
 technological challenges of the day.


 2. Strategy

 The goal of our Research & Enterprise Strategy for REF2021 is to significantly improve our
 position as a leading UK University undertaking distinctive, world-leading research of rigour and
 significance. This has required a cultural change in the University, with research activities
 gaining prominence and becoming embedded within our educational offerings and academic
 structures.


                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The four key aims of the Research & Enterprise Strategy are:

    •    Enhancing our research culture by increasing impactful research activity and promoting
         international research excellence across the institution.
    •    Maximising the societal impact of our research and expertise by fostering a culture of
         enterprise and external engagement.
    •    Developing effective and comprehensive research training mechanisms to support the
         research community across all career stages.
    •    Embedding Research and Enterprise activities into the Learning and Teaching culture
         across programmes.

 These aims include specific objectives to;

    •    develop an effective research environment across the University, pro-actively supported
         by professional services
    •    stimulate and support a vibrant pipeline of impact-rich activities leading to innovative
         products, processes and services
    •    maximize global impact by nucleating recognized Centres of Excellence such as NRI that
         bring critical mass to key research themes though targeted investment
    •    strengthen effective partnerships at senior and operational level with regional public
         sector bodies to promote the anchor role of the University in the region, as well as
         innovation and commercial institutions that play a leading role in our research themes
    •    become a prominent UK university for social enterprise and entrepreneurship.

 In support of this the University has successfully implemented a number of strategic enablers;

     •   a new academic framework with clearly defined academic career pathways
     •   a new Research & Enterprise Training Institute (RETI) to integrate training across all
         career stages and deliver a comprehensive programme of training (aligned to Vitae’s
         Research Development Framework).
     •   a strategic investment plan using QR and our own development funds to support the
         growth and development of international research excellence through informed, targeted
         and evidence-based investment in staff and facilities.
     •   creating a clear and defined collaborative structure of research groups, centres and
         Institutes, with targeted investment of strategic, QR, RCIF and HEIF funding.
     •   a comprehensive annual assessment of research endeavours focusing on research
         outputs and impact to shape the strategic investment priorities and as a developmental
         opportunity for staff.

 Through these and other actions, we have:

    •    Increased the proportion of eligible staff submitted to REF from 25% (201.5 FTEs) in
         2014 to 50% (387 FTEs) in 2021
    •    Increased the amount of research income submitted to REF from £39.1M in 2014 to
         £96.1M in 2021
    •    Increased the number of doctoral completions in the REF period from 223 in 2014 to 432
         in 2021
    •    Increased the number of outputs listed in Scopus by 44% from c3300 in the REF2014
         period to c4700 in REF2021
    •    Increased the number of outputs published in top quartile journals by 93% from c1210 in
         2014 REF period to c2340 in the 2021 period
    •    Increased the total outputs with international co-authors from c1330 (40% of output) to
         c2530 (53%) – an increase of 90%




                                                                                            Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Enabling ecosystem

 We have invested significantly in strengthening the research ecosystem through an enabling
 central structure (GRE) dovetailing to Faculty-level functions. We have:

    •   Implemented a University-wide research impact strategy and appointed an Impact
        Framework Manager to drive impact-nurturing activities
    •   Provided training on public engagement, knowledge exchange and other impact-oriented
        topics and networking events
    •   Established an Enterprise Development Team providing support on stakeholder
        identification and engagement for socially and commercially-oriented impact
    •   Undertaken a dedicated effort to drive public engagement, knowledge exchange and
        other impact-oriented activities
    •   Utilised software tools such as Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker for planning, monitoring,
        curating and evidencing impact from research and tools such as Altmetric for scanning
        the environment to assess attention accorded to research outputs by audiences beyond
        academia.

 The ecosystem is further structured through robust policies, extensive training and engagement
 with external regulatory structures such as the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (2012, 2019) including:

    •   Code of Practice for Research
    •   Research Ethics Policy
    •   Ethical Research Collaboration Policy
    •   Procedures for Investigating Research Misconduct
    •   Academic Regulations for Research Awards

 We adopt sector-wide group practice wherever possible to improve this ecosystem, including:

    •   Open Research - engagement with the Open Access agenda through the Springer
        Compact Deal which allows authors to publish Open Access through our journal
        subscription and targeted use of the RCUK Open Access Block Grant. Since the Open
        Access (OA) policy was implemented the proportion of OA items deposited has
        increased three-fold, with a corresponding increase in the numbers of downloads:
    •   Open Data – fostered a research environment which recognises the value of open data,
        providing appropriate access to infrastructure systems and services, via;
                 ▪      A Research Data Management policy
                 ▪      Extensive in-person training provision through GRE/RETI (see below)
                 ▪      Expert input into all funding bids to ensure Open requirements are met
                        and to provide recommendations for free services and data repositories.
                        Steps have also been taken to optimise the institutional repository to take
                        some small datasets.
    •   Open Environment – we continue to raise the profile of our research and researchers
        through:
                 ▪      Increased use of blogs and social media and regular inter-campus
                        engagement activity
                 ▪      Wider dissemination of ongoing activity, through face-to-face, online and
                        streamed research lectures and conferences e.g. Open Science talks, the
                        ILD Public Lecture Series, Inaugural Lectures, Online Debates and
                        Scholar in the Spotlight.
    •   Responsible use of metrics - through targeted investment we have developed our own
        Statement on the Responsible Use of Metrics. All research assessment using metrics at
        the University (for example: for Academic Promotions; Recruitment; Appraisal; and REF
        preparations) are:

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

                 ▪      Linked to expert judgement: Criteria and/or indicators used are chosen
                        based on the purpose of the assessment and quantitative indicators are
                        used to inform judgements and challenge preconceptions (but not to
                        replace expert judgement).
                 ▪      Supported by reliable data: quantitative data sources are selected for
                        their reliability (i.e. accuracy, quality, transparency and coverage).
                 ▪      Tailored: Disciplinary differences in research inputs, processes and
                        outputs are taken into account with disciplinary biases in indicators used
                        explicitly acknowledged and addressed.
                 ▪      Responsive: Those responsible for research assessment recognise and
                        anticipate the potential effects of indicators, and are prepared to update
                        them.
                 ▪      Transparent: Assessment criteria and quantitative data must be
                        transparent and available (on request) to those being assessed.

 These developments have laid the foundations for vibrant research activity which will be at the
 heart of our new ten-year strategy.

 Future strategic goals

 The University is currently undertaking a Strategic Refresh. Central to this will be the further
 enhancement of our research environment to deliver impact, promote international excellence
 and foster multidisciplinary collaboration through externally facing Institutes with missions
 strongly aligned to external drivers such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the UK
 Government Industrial Strategy and the EU Five Missions programme. The strategy will have
 clear expectations on the impact our research should have in our communities.

 Our academic culture will be developed in a way that draws on a central tenet of the previous
 REF period – that engagement in some form of research and associated knowledge exchange
 activity is considered a core responsibility for an increasing number of academic staff, and this is
 supported and recognised through our staff talent management framework (spanning
 recruitment to promotion procedures), management systems and financial models.

 We will also aim to maximise the impact of research in our educational provision by supporting
 and encouraging pedagogic and practice-based research as well as student participation in
 research projects so that our research truly informs our taught curricula and inspires our
 students.

 Targeted, inward investment in research facilities and support services, coupled with enhanced
 training provision, will enable those staff and student communities engaged in meaningful
 research to grow in size and confidence and to become ever more creative and ambitious. In
 particular, we aim to instil in our postgraduate and early career research community the skills
 and confidence to succeed as independent researchers, facilitated with an emphasis on equality,
 diversity and inclusivity so that their talents are truly encouraged and developed.


 3. People

 Staffing Strategy

 The University has changed significantly over the REF period, partly due to a People Strategy
 (2016) which aimed to recruit and develop colleagues who inspire society through the discovery,
 application and dissemination of knowledge.




                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                          % staff     Contract       Gender      Ethnicity    % Full-time
                          with        Type (%        (%F)        (% BAME)     equivalent
                          doctorate   permanent)
  2014 (all Uni staff)    43          91.5           43.7        24.1         81.9
  2021 (all Uni staff)    45          92.4           48.1        40.2         84.7
  2021 (SRR cohort)       94          93.2           43.0        48.0         89.8

 In comparing academic staff in 2014 and the REF2021 (SRR) cohort, it is possible to see;

    •   the researcher population (SRR cohort) in 2021 has been consolidated with an increase
        in the number of permanent, full-time staff,
    •   that the ethnic diversity of the SRR cohort is greater than the wider academic population
    •   that the ethnic diversity of the SRR cohort far outstrips both the UK-wide academic
        population (BAME 18%) and the UK population at large (BAME 17%).

 We know that we have some way to go to fully reflect the engagement of women in research
 and most notably in senior roles (women are under-represented in the SRR cohort (43.0%)
 compared to the entire academic population at Greenwich (48.1%) and the overall population
 (50.6%)). Actions to redress this imbalance are reflected in our new strategy.

 The People Strategy is underpinned by a set of connected aspirations that support and
 recognise the contribution staff make. We aim to:

    •   Develop an inclusive community of scholars and professionals with a commitment to a
        common purpose, supported to achieve individual and organisational goals, facilitated
        through a series networks including a Postgraduate/Early Career Researchers (ECR)
        forum
    •   Encourage support for, and work with, LGBT+, Disability, BAME and Women’s Staff
        Networks and Women’s Professoriate Group
    •   Ensure that all employees understand our objectives with clarity about the expectations
        of roles and performance
    •   Provide feedback, coaching, mentoring, leadership, management and skills development
    •   Fairly reward good performance and challenge underperformance.

 Central to our support for academic staff is the Academic Framework, with four connected sets
 of activities to enable higher staff performance, in line with our values and behaviours;

    •   Three distinct Career Pathways (Research; Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise;
        Teaching and Learning) that establish the interdependent expectations between the
        University and academic staff, providing a consistent, equitable mechanism for assessing
        and rewarding contributions to academic life
    •   Appraisal - providing an opportunity to discuss and agree how expectations are met and
        career aspirations are supported
    •   Balanced Academic Workload (BAW) - capturing the relative effort that members of
        academic staff are committing to different academic activities
    •   Reward and Recognition - recognising academic excellence and contribution to the
        University's aims

 Within this framework, 158 colleagues have been promoted since 2017 with representation on a
 par with the university staffing diversity composition, e.g. female (48%) and BAME (30%). 48%
 of these have been via the research career pathway.

 This Academic Framework also underpins the Code of Practice (REF) that identifies those
 academics with significant responsibility for research (SRR).



                                                                                            Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We have invested significantly in the researcher population, ensuring all new appointees are
 either research-active or aspire to activity. There has been a significant focus on identifying
 talent in the early stages of their career. The EDI analysis of those identified with SRR,
 compared to the wider academic population shows:

    •   the SRR population has a peak profile of 35-44 whereas the non-SRR population merely
        increases with age, reflective of non-research-active programme-leadership and
        management cohorts;
    •   the SRR population is only slightly more male dominant than the University-wide
        population (57% vs 52%);
    •   the SRR population has a greater percentage of full-time contracts (by 5%) compared
        with the wider University population, reflecting the cohort of lecturing staff on fractional
        contracts, and;
    •   the SRR cohort is significantly more BAME rich (by 8%) compared with the wider
        University population, and with an equal BAME – white composition within the SRR
        cohort.

 Career Development for Researchers

 Central to the career development of the researcher-staff base is the activity of the Research
 and Enterprise Training Institute (RETI).

 RETI was created in 2016 and has developed a broad training provision for PGR students and
 staff. The training is delivered by both internal and external experts through a blended approach
 and has been instrumental in developing the expertise and confidence of the researcher
 community through:

    •   Implementation of the Researcher Development Concordat
    •   Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF)
    •   EU HR Excellence in Research Award
    •   Use of survey feedback e.g. Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) &
        Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS) 2020
        to inform developmental activity. In the PRES, within the seven core areas, the
        University scored (definitely or mostly agreed) >80% in research skills, responsibilities,
        professional development, progression and supervision. Moreover, of the 103
        participating institutions, the University ranked 9 th for research skills, 20th for
        responsibilities, 22nd for professional development and 23rd for progression.
    •   Adapting provision to better align with the protected characteristic distribution of our
        PGRs, where the data showed marginal higher females vs males (which is higher than
        the UKRI rate) with a fairly even distribution of BAME and white PGRs.

 Additional support is provided for our PGR community including:

    •   A training programme covering research design, academic writing, publishing, qualitative
        and quantitative research skills, intellectual property, ethics, project management,
        literature review, research integrity and viva preparation. Teaching-skills training is also
        provided, along with sessions on mental health and wellbeing which include stress
        management, developing resilience and overcoming procrastination.
    •   RETI manages the training and development of supervisors and delivers a portfolio of
        essential and optional training in parallel to PGR training, as well as guidance, advice
        and the provision of regulatory and procedural documentation when required.
    •   RETI also performs a pastoral role which starts at PGR student (and staff) induction and
        highlights information and support available.
    •   RETI support extends into faculty and departmental events. In conjunction with the
        Faculty Research Degrees Committees (a key part of the PGR student and supervisor
        journey) RETI oversees the quality and standards of research degrees by ensuring

                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        research proposals, transfer assessment panels, examination panels and supervisory
        teams meet required the standards set out by QAA.

 Equality & Diversity

 The University continues to significantly reshape its researcher pool. Like many institutions, we
 have challenges to address in order to ensure our researchers reflect the communities they
 serve.

 The Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2019-2022 is a declaration of our commitment to
 place equality, diversity and inclusion at the heart of everything we do. A clear Equality and
 Diversity Policy Statement reinforces expectations of the values and behaviours that all
 members of our community should exhibit. The policy expects staff and students to:

    •   Treat others with respect at all times and promote an environment free of all kinds of
        bullying and harassment
    •   Actively discourage discriminatory behaviours and, as a signatory of the Big Promise on
        Race Equality, to have zero-tolerance towards racism; to actively sponsor ethnic minority
        (especially black) talent in the workplace, publish the ethnicity pay gap each year and set
        targets with an action plan to meet them
    •   Participate in training and learning opportunities that enable them to adopt best practice
        and improve inclusion.

 Staff are required to complete the ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials’ course on joining (and
 every three years thereafter) and all managers are required to complete the ‘Managing
 Diversity’.

 In support of our EDI objectives, we have signed up and/or are members of a number of
 accreditations, charters and programmes, including:

    •   Disability Confident
    •   HR Excellence in Research
    •   Stonewall Diversity Champions and the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index. The
        University achieved top-100 status three times during the REF period and the LGBT+
        Staff Network was named Staff Employee Network in 2017.
    •   Athena Swan (commitment to support reaccreditation for commencing in 2021)
    •   Support for the Race Equality Charter in 2022
    •   Our Aurora Programme - a leadership development programme organised by Advance
        HE for all people who identify as a woman. We are also now a member of the Women’s
        Higher Education Network (WHEN), which will provide further support for women's
        development and advancement in HE.

 In 2018 we launched our first Health and Wellbeing Strategy (2018-22) with Greenwich Students
 Union, which included:

    •   Continuation of the Time to Change Pledge: we are committed to removing the stigma of
        mental health and to highlight and develop new initiatives so staff and students can
        achieve their full potential
    •   The University is completing the Mentally Healthy University programme with the national
        charity MIND, funded by Goldman Sachs Gives. This is a call to action for employers to
        adopt the recommendations of the governments independent review to support mental
        health (UUK - Step change).

 This work is underpinned by the implementation of a new Talent Management System to ensure
 a best-in-class solution for enabling transparent development and career progression and
 diversity data capture.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Additionally, we have established a number of Diversity Groups & Networks, including:

     •   LGBT+ and allies community
     •   Disability Staff Network
     •   BAME Staff Network
     •   Women Staff Network
     •   Women’s Professoriate Group
     •   Diversity Interest Group
     •   Mental Health and Wellbeing Champions Network

 Commensurate with obligations under the Equality Act 2020 and Equality Act 2010 (Specific
 Duties and Public Authorities) Regulation 2017 to equal pay legislation, the University uses the
 Higher Education Role Analysis (HERA) scheme to assess the value of roles, which are mapped
 to our grading and pay structure, shaped by the Joint Negotiating Committee for Higher
 Education Staff pay scale.

 The overall profile of staff included in the most recent Gender Pay Gap Report (March 2018)
 including hourly paid staff, equates to 44.5% Male and 55.5% Female, which show that the
 overall mean (10.4%) and median (13.5%) gender pay gaps have decreased by 2.6% and 4.1%
 respectively;




 Figure 1: Proportion of male and female full-pay equivalent employees in the lower, lower
 middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands (%).

 Early analysis of these data has suggested that the researcher population is contributing to the
 gender pay gap due to the greater percentage of senior male researchers, compounded by the
 potential for early career female researchers to be disadvantaged in their career and promotion
 prospects, in part due to caring responsibilities. In order to address this the academic promotion
 process is placing greater emphasis on personal circumstances in assessing research
 achievement, in line with REF guidance, and all promotion panels are constituted to reflect
 gender balance.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University is well-appointed to engage in world-leading research, e.g. 400 MHz & 500 MHz
 solid and liquid NMR spectrometers; triple, quad and QTF mass spectrometry for bioscience,
 environmental and pharmaceutical science studies; triple quad ICP-MS for optimal metal
 interference removal in complex food stuffs and environmental samples; tropical glasshouse
 facilities; insectaries; 3D tracking wind-tunnel; a food-grade algal pilot facility fitted with a suite of
 photobioreactors of up to 400L and a 3.5 m 2 mini-raceways; a state-of-the-art, multi-disciplinary

                                                                                                     Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (£2.4M) healthcare Skills and Simulation Centre that combines realistic healthcare
 environments, virtual and augmented reality with life-like mannequins and replica clinical
 equipment and video linking with partner healthcare trusts; centrally high-performance
 computing facilities with 48 compute nodes (20 CPU cores @2.4 GHz) and within Faculty, 5
 GPU nodes; 8 NVIDIA™ GTX 1080 Ti GPUs, 32 Intel™ Xeon CPUs and one NVidia V100-
 powered DGX-1 workstation benchmarked at 500 TFlops and an electroencephalogram (EEG)
 system with a 64 ch Neuvo Amplifier with SynAmps RT System Unit.

 Inward investment follows centrally-driven strategies, deployed to maximise the impact at
 Faculty level. Over the REF period, QR+HEIF investment has amounted to £20M and £12.3M
 respectively. A significant portion of these funds are disbursed to Faculties based on the annual
 benchmarking process via an algorithm driven by the cumulative volume and quality of research
 outputs over the period and their impact. These allocations are managed at Faculty-level
 through a mixture of onward allocation to research groups or through open competition in order
 to bring a specific Faculty context. A proportion of these funds are used to pump-prime research
 areas via targeted funding streams;

    •   Seedling Fund (68 awards, £235K)
    •   Proof-of-Concept Funding (33 awards, £453K)
    •   Impact Development Fund (5% total HEIF, value/number as necessary)

 In line with this ethos, RCIF investment (£2.13M) over the period has also mapped to a
 volume/quality indicator and has been broadly distributed as:

  Unit                                                                          Investment / £K
  Engineering                                                                          543
  Allied Health Professions                                                            232
  Agriculture                                                                          677
  Chemistry                                                                            583
  Business, English, Art & Design                                                      95

 The early-career researcher community is strongly supported through a number of specific
 initiatives designed to lead to profile-raising activity. Over the REF period, 66 awards have been
 made, totalling £94K, spread over all Faculties;

    •   ECR Research Excellence Award
    •   ECR Public Engagement and Communication Award
    •   ECR Travel Bursary Scheme

 Facilities to support research have also been enhanced:

    •   Research hubs have been created on each of the three campuses to co-locate support
        structures for researchers, bringing advice close to those who need it
    •   dedicated research student study spaces in our libraries, with fortnightly research cafe
        events and access to Academic Skills Hub
    •   Significant expansion in electronic collections including new e-journals,
        databases/monographs, including Sage Research Methods Online.
    •   Enhanced, user-orientated governance group providing strategic and operational
        direction for an expanded High-Performance Computing (HPC) service, including
        dedicated user/application support for all researchers to ensure maximum realisation of
        HPC potential.

 Recently, we have started to make better use of our estate as ‘living-laboratories’:




                                                                                            Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   The research hub at Greenwich is exploring the use of biophilia to improve the working
        environment in terms of reducing atmospheric contaminants and promoting well-being,
        and its demonstration into partner groups
    •   Stockwell Street roof gardens have been divided into two regions; “intensive green roofs”
        used by landscape architecture students and staff for teaching and research and the
        “extensive green roofs”, with a shallower depth of soil and solar panels, used as area for
        testing different seed mixtures.

 Finally, reiterating the ecosystem evolution, there has been significant investment in support
 staff, activity (peer review, horizon scanning, personal research plans) and systems (research
 information and analysis) within the central Research Development Services that facilitates
 research.




                                                                                           Page 11
