Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: University of West London
 1. Context and mission
 The University of West London (UWL) is located on two campuses in Ealing and Brentford; which
 along with the Berkshire Institute of Health in Reading, and the Drama Studio London, make up
 the Group Holdings. UWL is structured into nine academic Schools and Colleges which bring
 together cognate subject areas. As a progressive university with a student population of c14,000
 and c800 permanent staff, its origins can be traced back the Lady Byron School of 1859 which
 was founded to provide education for poor and disadvantaged children. Building on that heritage,
 the University’s mission is to give all students access to three fundamental and transformative
 rights - the rights to participation, inclusion, and enhancement.
 UWL is situated at the heart of one of the most prosperous regions in the UK. West London has a
 GDP value of over £73billion with more than 120,000 businesses including Cisco, GSK, Heathrow
 Airport, Sky, and many more. This dynamic economy is served by a complex web of international
 transport and infrastructure systems that forms a hub for investment and migration. This makes it
 culturally and ethnically diverse with 46% of its inhabitants being born outside the UK. This,
 combined with its relatively young demographic, creates a region of great dynamism. We have
 capitalised on this highly diverse and vibrant socio-economic context to build strong partnerships
 with industry, government organisations, and local stakeholders.
 In terms of reputation, UWL has consistently been ranked as the best modern university in London
 with the best NSS scores in the capital for the last two years. It is consistently ranked in the top
 50 in the Guardian and the Times/Sunday Times and its financial performance is regularly in the
 top quartile; it also continues to be in the top 20 institutions for social and ethnic inclusion. It has
 one of the most diverse student populations in the country with 53% the first in their family to
 attend university, 63% mature on entry, 56% BAME, and 98% state school educated. Its staff
 establishment, at census date, boasted the highest number of BAME and black professors per
 head in the country (26% compared to 17% nationally of which 9% are black compared to 2% for
 the UK as a whole.
 2. Strategy
 2.1 Research and impact strategy post-REF2014
 Historically, the University’s research strengths were focused on limited areas of excellence;
 originally Nursing and History in RAE 2001, and later predominantly Nursing as History was
 disbanded (RAE 2008). The University’s successive strategic plans (Ambition 2013-2018 and
 Achievement 2018-2023) built on these original research strengths whilst responding to the
 demands of the London and national economy; and the submission reflects this. We are submitting
 to seven units of assessment with 81 staff (75 FTE) which is double the 35.7 FTE across five units
 of assessment (UOAs) submitted in REF 2014. Our submission covers Allied Health; Computer
 Science; Engineering; Social Policy; Leisure and Tourism; Music; and Communication, Cultural
 and Media studies. Our research areas, and engagement with local partners, are directly relevant
 to bringing solutions to our own region’s economy. By way of an illustration, a recent report by
 Oxford Economics shows that the West London area has been particularly affected by COVID-19
 because of high degree of exposure in sectors where it has a large part of the market shares in
 London (e.g., transport, wholesale, retail and manufacturing, health and social work, and scientific
 and technical professions); all areas in which we carry out research.
 The review of our REF14 entry highlighted challenges related to inadequate research
 infrastructure; limited investment; low numbers of research active staff and doctoral students;
 inadequate research training and imperceptible career pathways; with very little strategic
 oversight. As a result, the 2015-2020 research strategy set-out a clear strategy with key


                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 performance indicators and metrics. The overall aim was to deliver useful knowledge with impact
 by focussing on the following objectives:
    1. Identify and invest in selective inter-disciplinary research centres and connect high
       performing staff to them
    2. Expand research base and build capacity and infrastructure by concentrating on inter-
       institutional partnerships, the construction of specialist space and dissemination
       opportunities
    3. Engage with regional and national priorities, and make a significant contribution to the
       wider economy and society
    4. Link research to internal and external enterprise, innovation, and knowledge exchange;
       improve impact volume and value, and open research
    5. Develop and enhance staff capability by talent spotting, providing expert training
       programmes, clear career pathways, and support within a supportive, diverse and inclusive
       culture; and improved doctoral recruitment and completion
    6. Drive civic engagement, innovation, and knowledge exchange.

 1. Seven inter-disciplinary research centres/institutes were established alongside the
    longstanding Richard Wells Centre with an international reputation for research into infection
    control; and the West London Centre for Evidence-based Healthcare (specialising in
    Healthcare Systematic Reviews) located within Richard Wells. The new centres are: the
    European Institute for Person-Centred Healthcare; the Centre for Cybersecurity and
    Criminology; the National Centre for Gang Research; the Policy and Practice Research
    Institute for Screen and Music (PRISM); the Geller Institute for Ageing and Memory (IAM); the
    International Centre for Hospitality and Aviation Resilience Management (ICHARM) which
    includes the Centre for the Study of Human Trafficking; and the Faringdon Centre for Non-
    Destructive Testing. We opened the School of Biomedical Sciences, with a research portfolio
    congruent with our allied health work, and representing a £2.5m investment. We anticipate the
    opening of a medical school within the next 5 years.
 2. Infrastructure investment in research and laboratory facilities have been extended significantly
    (see above, and details in section 4). An impact infrastructure has been created including an
    Impact Group led by the Head of Research and Engagement to provide advice and reviews;
    and facilitate interactions with research users. This growth resulted in a c£6m recurrent spend
    per annum on research staff, and c£1m on doctoral scholarships. At census date, we had 46
    full Professors (20 in 2014) and 26 Associate Professors. 54% of permanent academic staff
    had a doctorate compared to 22% in 2014. In addition, we supplemented the Research and
    Enterprise Operations team with mentors, advisers, and reviewers. We have also established
    two commercial entities to stimulate research and knowledge exchange: the Westmont
    Enterprise Hub (£1.2m donation) and the West London Food Innovation Centre (a match-
    funded £1.46m ERDF-funded laboratory for food product development).
 3. We have been successful in generating research addressing a range of international, national
    and regional priorities:
    •   In allied health, I-Hydrate is an innovative project, helping care homes across the country
        address dehydration amongst their residents; our epic3 guidelines on healthcare-
        associated infection control have underpinned national standards; a large-scale systematic
        review was carried out on the contribution of nurses to improving the health and well-being
        of people with learning disabilities; a pilot trial took place of Energy5 for patients with
        diabetes; National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), Wellcome Trust, and UKRI funding
        was obtained. The Geller Institute for Ageing and Memory gained significant AHRC grants

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        to explore a ‘multisensory’ approach to promote public health guidance and support the
        wellbeing of people with dementia in care homes
    •   In tourism, our research investigates the 2012 Olympics legacy in relation to regional
        housing regeneration; we also run an international research project to combat Human
        Trafficking in the European hotel sector
    •   In social policy, our research impacted on the Metropolitan Police, many local forces, and
        the Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) in relation to rape investigation, and
        county lines drug networks
    •   In the creative sphere, we produced pioneering work on record production techniques, and
        created an app affecting the way the public listens to music; PRISM, with the British Film
        Institute, worked on cultural preservation of under-recognised ‘genres’; our culture and
        media research is investigating the relationship between gender, work, and technology.
        We have recently been awarded a small British Academy grant (£9k) for a diachronic study
        of media supports in the advertising industry.
    •   In engineering and built-environment, we produced research on thermal measures to
        enhance building performance; and the use non-destructive engineering methods.
    •   In computer science, ground-breaking work was conducted into the value of human-
        centred systems design, and in cybersecurity.

 4. The University has provided strong and sustained support (see section 3) to academics
    bidding for external funding, resulting in increased volume and value in externally funded
    research; as well as commercial income from enterprise activities. The University presently
    works with some 6000 local businesses and an extensive range of industry partners,
    international collaborators and networks, government agencies; advocacy and policy
    networks; and key sector stakeholders. These activities and their outcomes are threaded
    throughout our units of assessment submissions. Our research shows impact on major
    corporations, policy bodies, sector organisations, and SMEs, in areas critical to society and
    the economy.
    Engagement with the open access agenda, supported by our Open Access Policy, provides a
    framework for funder and government open access compliance structured and monitored
    through regular reports to the University Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee
    (URSEC). Staff engagement was facilitated by providing bespoke training, and promoting a
    culture of openness in research. Repository operations are now at a steady pace, and two
    dedicated professional posts were created to support these activities. Just over 10% of the
    deposits are available with a Creative Commons license. This has been achieved without
    funding for paid Gold Open Access via Article Processing Charges (APCs), which will be an
    objective of the next strategy. The University journal New Vistas was founded in 2015 to
    encourage junior researchers and PGRs to disseminate their work and is now part of the Open
    Access UWL Press (2019). The University plans to expand its portfolio of UWL Press open
    publications in the future. The University has signed the San Francisco Declaration of
    Research Assessment (SF- DORA) in support of discipline-specific conventions in the
    assessment of research outputs, particularly in the humanities and creative disciplines.
 5. We introduced the Academic Employment Framework (AEF) in 2015 to enhance clarity and
    diversity in our employment framework; giving the opportunity for all academic staff to excel in
    their chosen area of expertise. The AEF gives equal value to research, scholarship and
    knowledge exchange (see section 3). This strategy has enabled us to increase the number of
    academic staff with doctorates; and the number of professors and associate professors (see
    objective 2), partly through the development of internal talent, and partly through judicious


                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    external recruitment. Staff who have demonstrated a promising research trajectory are
    identified as ‘next generation’ researchers and provided with support and mentorship to
    develop their potential (see section 3). Our REF submission (e.g. UoAs03, 11 and 34)
    showcases examples of the successful transition of staff from their early careers to
    independent researchers. The annual QR funding has been used for sabbaticals and study
    leave, Research Office support, PhD support and bursaries, and to support New Vistas. The
    Graduate School was setup in 2015 (renamed Graduate Centre in late 2020) to deliver crucial
    support functions. It carries out administrative oversight of progress and progression; provides
    a comprehensive programme of training for doctoral students; runs a mandatory programme
    of supervisory training, and acts as an advisor to students and supervisors (see section 3).
 6. We engaged in a number of activities to drive innovation and knowledge exchange. This
    includes start-up support; backing to freelancers; the professional development of a skilled
    creative workforce across our constituencies; and knowledge creation and transfer into the
    technology market through our Westmont Enterprise Hub. We also generate activities to
    support SMEs in product innovation through our West London Food Innovation Centre
    (WLFIC), funded through a £1.4 million ERDF grant, match-funded by the University; this is an
    interdisciplinary centre working closely with the ICHARM Research Centre, and with
    colleagues in hospitality and allied health. In terms of logistics and transport, we have strong
    links with Heathrow Airport (as holders of the Heathrow archive, and a permanent public
    exhibition of its contents).
 2.2 Five-year research and impact plans
 The main objectives for the next five years focus on:
    •   Securing more industry-based research collaborations and networks; growing our
        intellectual property base and maximising use and revenue via knowledge exchange
    •   Promoting equality and diversity in all aspects of our research activities
    •   Continuing to create a talent pipeline, recruiting high performing staff, and developing
        academic staff, supported by expert training and sabbatical systems
    •   Building capacity and infrastructure through partnerships, specialist space; and increasing
        our doctoral capacity to 400+ students
    •   Promoting equality and diversity in all aspects of our research activities
    •   Aligning Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategies, with clear target communities for
        impact
    •   Supporting the Open Research agenda including research data, and gold publishing.

 3. People
 3.1 Staffing strategy
 The AEF was introduced to create a framework for nurturing and managing academic staff
 expertise; it was deployed through an investment in people, facilities, and support. In addition to
 teaching responsibilities, academic staff are required to engage with research, scholarship (e.g.
 curriculum development, pedagogic innovation and dissemination) and/or knowledge exchange
 activities. The AEF enabled Heads of School to tailor their staffing requirements to the needs of
 students and the curriculum, generating a diverse pool of expertise. It allows them to be agile with
 work loading (within given parameters); it also provides staff with the flexibility to review their focus
 at different stages of their careers.

 3.2 Staff development
 Research is supported through a strong central support infrastructure, complemented by
 Schools/Colleges’ own research activities. Research and Enterprise Operations (REOps)
 supports all research funding applications and impact development. It provides advice on topics
                                                                                                   Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 including brokerage of contacts; KTP identification; patents and commercialization; managing
 research budgets; industry and user engagement. The Human Resources department offers
 training on equality and diversity, well-being, appraisals, promotion, working with external
 collaborators, developing leadership skills. It manages sabbaticals, study leave, and seed-funds
 applications (supporting both research and impact activities); and holds funds for conference,
 CPD, and internal and external courses, including MAs and PhDs. For example, in 2019-20, c£60k
 was spent on CPD, courses leading to qualifications, and conferences. The Library offers training
 and one-to-one support for open research; and has trained all staff on compliance. The
 Communications department offers advice on working with the media; public engagement;
 engaging with diverse audiences; using social media to influence; and lobbying strategies. The
 Graduate School provides training for doctoral supervisors, ensuring dissemination of good
 practice, understanding regulations and the VITAE framework, as well as UWL’s priorities and
 regulations, EDI, research integrity, and the University’s Code of Practice for Research Students
 and Supervisors. This policy defines the roles of supervisors and supervisees, and provides a
 framework for ‘research in an atmosphere of scholarship and collegiality enabling students to
 complete their degrees successfully within the time limits’ (p.1). Formal access, progression and
 graduation requirements are stipulated in the University’s Research Degree regulations. The
 University has insisted that this training be mandatory for all supervisors, recognising the crucial
 role supervisors play in ensuring quality and timely completion. The Graduate School runs the
 central programme of research training for PGR students throughout the entire period of their
 registration. This includes discussions of the doctoral milestones and regulations; and a
 programme including initial understanding of research methods, and advanced research methods
 in the different discipline paradigms, research ethics and integrity, the VITAE framework,
 managing a research project, doctoral writing, writing for publication; with many opportunities for
 students to present their research in progress. An important priority has been to ensure completion
 within 3 to 3.5 years; the Graduate School monitors doctoral students’ progress. PGRs also get
 opportunities to teach (maximum 6 hours a week), under the mentorship of their supervisors.
 The University runs three annual research days, including a Research Conference. This is led by
 the PVC (Academic) and provides dissemination forums, and networking opportunities. For REF,
 it has provided REF guidance sessions open to all; review opportunities; and discussions on the
 Code of Practice. All UoA Leads have undertaken unconscious bias training.
 3.3 Equality and diversity
 The University has an ethnically and gender diverse workforce, with 34% of staff from black and
 minority ethnic backgrounds (significantly above the national average). 29% of academic staff are
 from BAME backgrounds in contrast to 17% across the sector. Staff from BAME backgrounds can
 succeed at all levels of the University as seen from the composition of our professoriate (see
 section 1). Our ethnicity median pay gap at census date stood at 2.57%. Our gender pay gap
 median is 0%; 50% of our academic staff are female (vs 49% sector average); 37% of our
 professors are female (vs. a sector average of 27%), and 42% of the senior staff are female.
 Our sickness procedures enable staff to remain on full pay for 6 months and half pay for another
 six months. This can be extended when necessary. We support ‘Better Gyms’ and provide access
 to an Employee Assistance Programme at discounted rates. Our Health and Wellbeing framework
 includes advice and support on mental health awareness. We operate flexible working support for
 remote working where needed, including for staff with parental and caring responsibilities, or other
 specific circumstances. During COVID-19, we introduced regular briefings on health and well-
 being, and good practice when working remotely.
 We have a substantive EDI infrastructure (including the Equality, and Diversity Advisory Group –
 EDAG - chaired by the University Secretary). We provide mandatory training covering all aspects
 of EDI including inter alia ‘Dignity at Work’ and ‘Transgender’ rights. UWL subscribes to Advance

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 HE and works with Stonewall (a LGBT equalities rights charity) to raise awareness of gender
 issues. We are working towards the Athena Swan Gender Equality Chartermark. We are presently
 working on a UKRI/OfS bid to improve access to doctoral education by Black students.
 In terms of REF, we have followed the protocols described in our Code of Practice. The REF Task
 Group, and all REF Leads, have received equality and unconscious-bias training. Three formative
 equality impact assessments took place. These have been reported to EDAG and URSEC. Staff
 with protected characteristics were shown to suffer no obvious disadvantage. The research
 development opportunities available – e.g., research funding, sabbaticals, conference funding -
 always state the conditions and criteria applied. There is a transparent process and clear briefs
 for all applications. Access to HR-managed research support described in 3.2 follow established
 procedures and are open to all staff meeting the relevant criteria. In terms of doctoral students,
 recruitment is based on regulations that specify entry requirements, and interviews are held by a
 panel including supervisors and the Graduate School to ensure consistency across the institution.
 Final registration to PhD status (transfer) is overseen by the University Research Degrees Sub-
 Committee
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 There has been significant investment to support research income and impact. The appointment
 of a Head of Research and Engagement, and the expansion of the REOps team have been
 important factors. Notably the appointments/promotions of 26 Professors and 20 Associate
 Professors and the opening of seven new research centres signals the ground covered.
 4.1 Research income
 Our income generation strategy is based on mechanisms including: training, monitoring, peer-
 review, study leave, sabbaticals, ‘cradle to grave’ support for bid applications; incentives to
 collaborate internally and externally; and investment in laboratories and other research facilities.
 We support in equal measure applications to research councils, government departments, private
 organisations, and charitable foundations, regardless of the volume of grant applied for.
 The number of grant applications has grown significantly over the REF period, and included
 submissions to UKRI (EPSRC; ESRC; AHRC; Innovate UK); Strength in Places; NIHR;
 Leverhulme; Wellcome Trust; British Academy; Alzheimer’s Society; British Heart Foundation and
 Horizon 2020. The University also supported staff in responding to the urgent needs arising from
 COVID-19. Thirteen bids were submitted by the end of period, including major proposals to the
 NIHR on infection prevention and control (£380k), to the Natural Environment Research Council
 (NERC) on respiratory health, and to UKRI on promoting the wellbeing of people with dementia in
 care homes (£417k). This was in addition to smaller bids; e.g. assessing impact on ‘county lines’
 drug crime.
 4.2 Examples of donations and grants from foundations to support research
     infrastructure
 Leisure and Tourism (2016-17):        £120K and £100K to appoint two professorial chairs in
 Hospitality
 Heathrow Archive and Exhibition (2016-19): £200K from Heathrow airport and HLF to preserve
 the archives and create a permanent public exhibition
 Dementia and Art (2017-19): £89,337 from trusts and foundations, charities, care homes,
 galleries, museums and individuals for collaborative research on living with dementia
 Ground Penetrating Radar in Arborology (2017-20): c£430K to develop methodologies
 applying ground penetrating radar in the assessment of the health of ancient trees at risk of
 disease.



                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Westmont Enterprise Hub (2016-20): £1.2m from two donors to establish a Hub to support start-
 ups
 Geller Institute of Ageing and Memory (2018): £1m from a single donor to set up the Institute
 Healthcare: Health Institute Society Grant (2019): £65K for research on minimising the risk of
 hospital patients developing non-ventilator acquired pneumonia.
 Addiction: Tackling social isolation to aid the recovery of people of with dual diagnoses (2019):
 £26,300
 Social policy: UK and Japanese collaboration (2018): £7K from Daiwa Foundation for research
 on victims of violent crime in the Japanese and English justice systems.
 4.3 Support for research impact
 We have developed our impact infrastructure through support to staff (see impact group in section
 2) and by establishing facilities that provide public access to our expertise for research and
 development. The Westmont Enterprise Hub, supporting and incubating innovative new start-ups
 and spin-outs, maximizes commercial value and impact. Over the past 2 years it has supported
 50 start-ups, with 450+ members and connections to 500+ businesses. The West London Food
 Innovation Centre is used to test and reformulate food products with research on sustainable
 ‘green food’. It has engaged 95 SMEs over the past 2 years, of which 58 were start-ups. This led
 to the creation of 58 new products and a projection of 150+ prospective jobs.
 As described in section 2, the Communications department supports staff in promoting research
 findings, and generating access to research users through bespoke events, press releases and
 social media. School/College staff ensure that information about research findings promotes
 external and public engagement. Examples include locally-focused activity, and high-profile
 events such as the 2019 launch of our National Centre for Gang Research at the House of
 Commons, the national promotion of our I-Hydrate project, or the Human Trafficking seminars (the
 Ceserani series) at the Institute of Directors over a period of two years.
 We engage with the public, including local communities, and are signatories to National Co-
 ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) Manifesto for Public Engagement. This forms
 part of our civic mission, as stated in our Public Benefit Statement, and clearly signaled in our KEF
 narrative for Community and Public Engagement.
 4.4 Infrastructure and facilities
 Our Estates and Facilities investment programme (over £170m over the period) has enabled us
 to create social and open learning spaces and advanced simulation spaces for research; a library
 without boundaries; a 300-seat flexible performance auditorium; a Sports Centre and a
 postgraduate building for doctoral students (the Rami Ranger House). Sponsored by Lord Ranger
 £0.5m), it was opened in 2019 and is a fully resourced space exclusively for the use of research
 students. It offers spaces for collaborative working, socialising, supervision and mentoring on the
 ground floor. The first floor provides individual workspaces and the second floor is used for
 teaching and studying.
 Over the period, we have opened a concrete laboratory for construction research; a ground-
 penetrating radar laboratory; twelve computer laboratories; a built-environment studio; two allied
 health simulation centres used in research on patient behaviour; four biomedical science
 laboratories; two forensic investigation laboratories; a Virtual Reality laboratory; and numerous
 performance and music studios. We have invested in a ‘Flight Pad’ – a Boeing 737-800 Flight
 Simulator – which is used in feasibility studies for research on risk management.
 The University has invested in ensuring that infrastructures are kept in top working order.
 Equipment and facilities are assessed regularly for health and safety under our formal directives
 and protocols; and rigorously inspected and tested by technicians to ensure they meet the required
 technical standards.

                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




                                                   Page 8
