Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 1. Context and mission


 Introduction to Context and Mission

 The University of Chichester (UoC) is an ambitious and dynamic institution, committed to
 achieving world class academic excellence. Our research community is comparatively small (99
 ‘Category A’ staff and 99 PGRs) but rapidly developing in scope and diversity, with new
 departments, collaborative initiatives and a growing portfolio. The REF2021 submission this
 statement supports, which represents a doubling of Units of Assessment (UoAs) for the
 University over REF2014, bears witness to this remarkable trajectory. UoAs listed in bold are
 making their first REF submissions:

 UoA 4: Psychology
 UoA 12: Engineering
 UoA 17: Business and Management Studies
 UoA 20: Social Work and Social Policy
 UoA 23: Education
 UoA 24: Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
 UoA 27: English Language and Literature
 UoA 28: History
 UoA 31: Theology and Religious Studies
 UoA 33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 Year-on-year total registered student numbers are as follows (HESA):

           2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
  PGR        68       68      89     94      91      95      99
  PGT        755     731     755     796     963    1000    1050
  UG        4792    4647    4674 4651       4464    4374    4395
  Total     5635    5472    5546 5574       5566    5530    5595

 Our unique context and profile offer up several advantages that we have sought strategically to
 exploit across the REF2021 assessment period. As the only university in West Sussex, we
 recognise the economic, social and cultural importance of ‘place’. Our size and structure have
 also allowed us to adapt quickly to the challenges we face, affording us an unusual level of
 administrative agility. In a related way, we have been able to hardwire interdisciplinarity into our
 research, fostering innovative ways of thinking and working that set us apart from other
 institutions.

 This commitment to wide-ranging and place-centred academic excellence has led us to invest
 heavily in our research capabilities, particularly at our Bognor Regis Campus (BRC), which is
 bringing essential research and innovation (R&I) activity to a neglected south coast region.
 Centred around a GBP35,000,000 Tech Park, opened in October 2018 by the Duke and
 Duchess of Sussex, the BRC is home to some of our newest subject areas, including
 Engineering & Design, and Creative Digital Technologies, and is fast becoming a key regional
 hub for interdisciplinary STEAM research. Alongside our historic Bishop Otter campus (BOC) in
 Chichester, this state-of-the-art infrastructure looks simultaneously forwards and outwards to the
 cultural, economic and environmental challenges facing a competitive twenty-first-century global
 economy.

 Our vision for the future is securely rooted in our past, which began in 1839 with the
 establishment of a teacher training college in memory of Bishop William Otter. Preserving this



                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 heritage in education is one of our Key Strategic Themes, which we keep it at the heart of
 everything we do, and which also commit us to:
     - Keeping the Chichester student experience high-quality, personalised, accessible and
        aspirational
     - Increasing the size and diversity of our student body
     - Providing an excellent staff experience based on the core values of the University
        community
     - Achieving disciplinary and cross-disciplinary excellence in research and innovation
     - Increasing external academic engagement, meeting regional needs and securing
        national and international recognition
     - Contributing to the development of a strong economic ecosystem in West Sussex
        through imaginative business partnerships, enterprise education and support for
        graduate start-ups

 Put simply, we want to benefit the world through outstanding research, innovation and
 education.


 Institutional Structure
 The strength of our institution lies in the ability of our academic and administrative subject
 teams, backed by effective Professional Services, to undertake rigorous and interdisciplinary
 research. These are led by the Vice-Chancellor's Group (VCG), which meets regularly to discuss
 matters relating to the strategic direction of the University.

 Our academic teams operate within the following Institutes and Departments:
    1.) Institute of Sport (IoS)
    2.) Institute of Education, Health and Social Sciences (IEHSS)
    3.) Institute of Arts and Humanities (IAH)
    4.) Chichester Conservatoire
    5.) Business School
    6.) Department of Creative and Digital Technologies
    7.) Department of Engineering and Design

 The IEHSS and IAH were established in 2018 as part of a strategic restructuring of the
 University’s diverse academic strengths. Bringing together the areas of Childhood, Social Work
 and Social Care, Psychology and Counselling and Education, the IEHSS ensures the
 sustainability and effective leadership of each area within the sphere of health (broadly
 construed). The IAH combines the Department of Humanities (History, English and Creative
 Writing, Politics, Theology and Philosophy with Theatre) with Law, International Relations and
 Product Design. The IoS, the oldest of our Institutes, conducts a wide range of internationally
 recognised and world leading research into exercise physiology. The UoC has just opened a
 new School of Nursing and Allied Health, which will build on our longstanding institutional links
 with nearby St Richard’s Hospital.

 This institutional structure affords these areas two key advantages. First and foremost, academic
 leadership teams and staff are uniquely placed to foster interdisciplinarity within and across the
 subject areas under their remit. Research projects, portfolio development, continuous
 professional development (CPD), consultancy, bidding and income generation all benefit from
 the coordinated approach it facilitates, whilst also maintaining the distinctive methodological
 traditions that underpin each traditional academic area. In this way, the UoC avoids monolithic
 research structures, and enables new kinds of interdisciplinary work that are reflected in the
 remarkable diversification of our REF2021 submission.

 Secondly, it enables our academic staff easily to participate in tightly knit leadership teams, at
 both institutional and subject-specific levels. As a consequence, UoC strategic planning in
 relation to research is delivered for and with the academic community at large.


                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Research Governance
 Research at the UoC is supported by the Research Office, which, under the leadership of
 Professor Simeon Keates (Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) with responsibility for R&I) and Dr
 Antonina Pereira (Cross-Institutional Lead for Research), coordinates and assists with
 researcher CPD, bid funding activity, monitoring research ethics, and managing PGR
 administration (including registration, progress monitoring and examinations). It also ensures the
 smooth functioning of our 7 research-related committees:
    - Research and Innovation Committee (RIC). Chaired by the DVC, RIC meets 5 times
        per academic year, reporting directly to Academic Board, the UoC’s most senior
        academic committee. The RIC brings together staff with responsibility for research,
        innovation and apprenticeships, and thus fosters the cross-fertilisation of our R&I
        activities.
    - Research Degrees Board (RDB). Chaired by the DVC, RDB confers research degree
        awards.
    - Research Ethics Committee (REC). REC is the central vehicle through which research
        ethics and integrity are monitored at the University, in accordance with our Research
        Ethics Policy.
    - Research Degrees Group (RDG). Meeting at least 4 times per academic year, RDG
        oversees all matters of research degrees governance at the UoC except those related to
        ethics.
    - REF Project Team (REFPT). Chaired by the Cross-Institutional Lead for Research,
        REFPT meets a minimum of 5 times per academic year to discuss preparations and staff
        support for REF.
    - Impact Working Group (IWG). Chaired by Professor Iain Greenlees, IWG provides all
        UoC researchers with an open forum for sharing best practice on how to produce and
        evaluate impactful research.
    - Equality and Diversity Sub-Group (E&DSG). Chaired by Dr Barbara Thompson,
        E&DSG meets roughly bi-monthly to discuss concerns and initiatives related to Equality
        and Diversity (E&D).

 As is the case within Institutes, the leadership and Terms of Reference guiding each of these
 fora proactively encourage and require the involvement of academic staff from all subject areas,
 alongside PGR representatives (in RIC and RDG) to participate in the University’s
 administrative and strategic leadership in matters related to research.


 Research Ethics
 The UoC’s Researcher Code of Conduct (available on our Research Governance webpage)
 offers a comprehensive overview of our commitment to upholding rigour and integrity in our
 research. Key principles include producing work of the highest quality; maintaining a culture of
 research that fosters and rewards honesty and accountability; providing an effective safety net
 for the declaration and minimisation of conflicts of interest; promoting the open exchange of
 ideas, research methods and results; ensuring our researchers have access to adequate skills
 training; and protecting the dignity, rights and safety of all stakeholders.

 Since 2014 the UoC has subscribed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and is
 committed henceforth to publishing an annual statement outlining how we satisfy its
 requirements.




                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 ‘Open for Change’
 The UoC’s Strategic Plan, ‘Open for Change 2018-2025’, signals our increasingly externally-
 facing approach to (1) R&I; (2) academic engagement; and (3) learning, teaching and student
 experience.

 Underpinning ‘Open for Change’, and the UoC’s fundamental philosophy of who and what a
 university serves, is a conviction in the interrelated importance of these 3 concerns. We are
 committed to achieving excellence through a supportive research environment in which all of our
 academics are encouraged and expected to contribute to knowledge creation through both
 research and teaching, so that ‘all of our teachers research and all of our researchers
 teach’.

 This approach ensures that our academic community remains open to the productive cross-
 fertilisation of research and pedagogical expertise; it prevents (alongside our institutional
 structure) the emergence of insular ‘ivory towers’ within our academic areas; and it ensures that,
 at an individual level, all staff are able/expected to build research profiles of international repute.
 Our Research and Enterprise Sub-Strategy, which forms part of our ‘Open for Change’
 agenda, thus recognises that research prepares and qualifies academics as deliverers of
 outstanding learning and supervision, and is a fundamental part of the Higher Education offer.

 ‘Open for Change’ also summarises our institutional approach to Open Access (OA). Since
 initiating a plan to create an institutional OA repository (‘ChiPrints’) based on EPrints open
 source software in 2011, and introduced a formal OA Policy in early 2015, we have overseen
 the OA uploading of 3,320 research outputs (including articles, monographs, edited volumes,
 chapters, theses, shows/performances, compositions and videos), which have now been
 downloaded over 200,000 times. Between January 2014 and July 2020, the proportion of
 ChiPrints deposits including full-text rose from 15% to over 50%.

 Since launching ChiPrints, the UoC has implemented a variety of initiatives to increase advocacy
 for OA, including a 1,000th deposit milestone award from the Vice-Chancellor (most recently in
 December 2019), a deposit amnesty, and a summer project to encourage the creation and
 connection of ORCIDs. The Electronic Resources and Research Support Librarian, who
 oversees ChiPrints, is a member of the REFPT, and provides an OA update at every meeting.


 Enabling Research

 Across the REF2021 assessment period, the UoC Research Office has sought to enable
 research activity among our community, playing to our researchers’ strengths and making seed
 money available to develop and nurture emerging research to the point where external funds
 can then be attracted.

 One key way of doing this – especially among our early career researchers (ECRs) – is through
 our internal Research and Innovation Fund (RIF) (previously the Research Facilitation
 Fund/Researcher Development Award, which funded more than 250 research projects (over
 GBP500,000) and, in 2015-17, fast-tracked the career development of 13 ECRs). The RIF
 comprises the following:
         • The Research Facilitation Fund – that aims to foster research activity and local,
             national and international impact projects
         • The Networking and Dissemination Fund – that aims to support conference
             presentation/attendance and CPD
         • The Postgraduate Fund – that aims to develop and nourish our research culture and
             community through the attribution of postgraduate fee-waivers


                                                                                                  Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 With over 50 bids awarded between November 2019 and July 2020, the RIF is catalysing a
 remarkable uptick in research activity at the University. In taking advantage of this funding, each
 UoA is expected to demonstrate annually how funding has enabled further research activity,
 external funding, publications, and impact. Going forwards, we plan to introduce a graduated
 accessibility level to RIF funding provisions, with ECRs given the priority funding needed to
 spark their research and develop their careers.

 Another key UoC strategy for enabling research across the REF2021 assessment period is our
 provision of protected research time, which we provide our research staff through research
 leave (25 days, over and above their 35 days’ annual leave (pro-rata)) and research sabbatical
 leave provisions. The latter can be applied for via our Research Sabbatical Policy, and
 provides opportunities for 1-12 month periods away from teaching and administrative duties
 (typically salaried), for the completion of specific and agreed research/writing schedules.


 Fostering Impact and Engagement

 Our strategy in this area can be described broadly within two overarching themes:

 Fostering impactful research that delivers tangible benefits. Drawing on the same wide-
 ranging and inclusive view of research championed by REF, we recognise the need for a
 positive culture that motivates people to do diverse/risk-taking and impactful work, moving away
 from a narrow (or ‘traditional’) view of what research can and should be. This is supported both
 within institutes and through the Impact Working Group.

 Fostering enterprise and employer engagement. We are continually seeking to embed
 employer engagement and enterprise culture across the University, to make undertaking
 employer engagement and enterprise activities an aspiration for all staff and a reality for a
 significant number. In this way, we are committed to making a significant contribution to the
 sustainable economic, cultural, social and educational regeneration of the communities that the
 UoC serves, particularly in coastal and rural West Sussex.

 As part of this commitment, successful bids to both the South East England Development
 Agency (SEEDA) and the Higher Education Funding Council of England (HEFCE) have provided
 an injection of funds (over GBP500,000 since 2014) that have allowed the Business School and
 the University’s Research and Employer Engagement Office (REEO) to occupy an extensively
 re-furbished listed building on the BRC, and to become a lead element in the education-led
 regeneration of the area. The UoC is also a signatory to the newly-established Knowledge
 Exchange Concordat.




                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3. People

 A Place of Empowerment

 Our institution brings out the best in its researchers by supporting and empowering them
 wherever possible, rather than adopting the more coercive ‘publish or perish’ policies that
 otherwise dominate the HE sector. We believe this fosters the attainment and wellbeing of our
 community, in a career sector that frequently reports high levels of anxiety and stress. Between
 2013 and 2017 the UoC was a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, leading to us gaining the European Commission’s HR
 Excellence in Research Award.


 Staff and Staffing

 Bucking another sectoral trend, the UoC does not typically employ fixed term academic staff,
 believing it inimical to the welfare of academic people and academia more broadly. Our
 academics thus have the ability invest, both practically and emotionally, in their research profiles
 and environments.

 All UoC staff benefit from participating in a Performance Review Development Plan (PRDP) –
 a tailored CPD programme that caters to the personal and professional (including skills-based)
 needs of everyone within our professional community. At the same time, every UoC staff
 member is able to take advantage of our University Mentor Scheme, through which they are
 assigned a contact beyond their Department/line manager to whom they can consult for support
 and guidance.

 Beyond these provisions, we offer rapid career progression opportunities, including annual
 chances to apply for Readerships/Professorships; flexible and remote working options; and
 support for staff with caring responsibilities, ill health, and other equality-related circumstances.

 While ECRs are essential to the development of a vibrant and sustainable research
 environment, they often suffer from limited opportunities in the HE sector. In recognition of this,
 we are constantly looking to develop strategies to support our ECR community, developing
 specialist CPD workshops that cater to the unique challenges they face.

 The UoC subscribes to both UKCGE and Vitae, the UK’s pre-eminent researcher training
 organisation. Alongside Vitae’s widely used Researcher Development Planner framework, our
 researchers are thus able to take advantage of a vast archive of online training materials.


 Supporting PGR Culture

 Our integrated approach to teaching and research offers tangible benefits for our PGRs, as well
 as the staff who supervise and support them. It ensures that supervisors are able continually to
 sharpen their pedagogical skills, whilst fostering an inclusive research community that breaks
 down the staff/student divide. The UoC has held research degree awarding powers since
 September 2013.

 The vitality and sustainability of our research environment is reflected in our extremely strong
 PGR recruitment rates. These amount to percentage increases of 45.6% (HESA/FPE) and
 56.6% (total registered PGRs numbers, inclusive of ‘PhD by publication’ candidates, but
 exclusive of intermitting or withdrawn students), in our PGR student body:




                                                                                                 Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

                            2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20

  PGR numbers
  (FPE/HESA)                  68         68        89       94      91       95       99

  PGR (total, excluding
  intermitting/withdrawn)     83         85       102      117      119      129      130

 Over the REF2021 assessment period the UoC has awarded over 80 bursaries/stipends (with
 a total value of GBP1,165,051.12), and over 60 fee waiver awards/staff sponsorships in
 support of PhD study.

 We also run a Pre-PhD Preparation programme, through which prospective MPhil/PhD
 applicants can register for 6 one-to-one supervision tutorials to help them prepare for doctoral
 study. Candidates have found this scheme of great benefit when submitting formal research
 proposals and applying for funding – whether at the UoC or elsewhere.

 Our PGR community is able to take advantage of dedicated study spaces within our South
 House building (BOC) and Tech Park (BRC), which provide 24 allocated desks, a further hot
 desk with printer, kitchen facilities and lockers. Students with disabilities are typically catered for
 in addition to these provisions, or as best fits their individual needs. Individual study rooms are
 also available to book on both campuses.


 Training and Presentation Opportunities

 Across the REF2021 assessment period the Research Office has developed a wide-ranging
 suite of annual research training and presentation opportunities that are open to all academic
 staff and PGRs. These are set out in our annual Professional Development Handbook, and
 typically include:
     - Independent Chair and Research Degree Examination Training (including for viva voce
         examinations)
     - Training on: NVivo and Mendeley
     - Open Access Training (ChiPrints)
     - Training in ‘SPSS’ or ‘R’ Software for Statistics in Research
     - PGR Supervisor Workshops and Training
     - Research Bid Costing and Pricing
     - Amplifying Research in the Media
     - How to Get Your Research Published
     - PGR Focus Week: Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Matters
     - PGR Study Days (AKA ‘Shut up and Write’)
     - Annual PhD Research Day

 UoC PGCert teaching programmes are run twice annually, offering all research staff and PGRs
 a route to attaining Fellowship/Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.

 The UoC also subscribes to the University of East Anglia (UEA) Online Training Series,
 which offers wide-ranging research and professional skills training for PGRs in a ‘live-taught’
 online format.


 Equality and Diversity

 The UoC’s commitment to equality and diversity are outlined in our E&D Policy and other
 annually published inclusivity documentation.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The REF2021 assessment period has coincided with the following developments:
    - A greater proportion of UoC academic/research staff self-identify as having one or
       more ‘protected characteristics’ (Equality Act 2010), including those with black or minority
       ethnic (‘BAME’) heritage (161.5% increase) and those with a disability (30.2% increase).
    - The proportion of UoC starting PGRs (MRes and PhD) of black or minority ethnic
       (‘BAME’) heritage has steadily increased from 21.2% to 34.6% from 2015/16 to 2019/20.
       This reflects (and exceeds) a more general increase within our wider student body.
    - The UoC gender pay gap (figures published annually) has steadily fallen at all pay and
       age levels. The most up-to-date available government sectoral gender pay gap data (31
       March 2019 census, filtered by ‘University’) places our overall mean gender pay gap
       (11.1%) at 36th out of 110 HEIs.

 The UoC works closely with the UoC Students’ Union (UCSU) to advance its equality, diversity
 and inclusion aims by participating in a range of activities and awards/initiatives:
    - We are registered as an organisation with Dementia Friends, an Alzheimer's Society
        initiative
    - We maintain Disability Confident Employer status
    - We adopt the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance’s (IHRA) Working
        Definition of Antisemitism
    - We are a signatory to the Mindful Employer ‘Charter for Employers who are Positive
        About Mental Health’, and the Time to Change Pledge (made jointly with UCSU),
        upholding a non-stigmatising culture around mental health
    - We are a member of Stonewall Diversity Champion's Programme, and a joint
        signatory (with UCSU) to the Government's Sports Charter, to advance gender identity
        equality and sexual orientation equality
    - From 2015/16 to 2016/17 the UoC subscribed to Advance HE’s leadership development
        programme for women, the Aurora Programme
    - We provide a wide range of related professional development opportunities for staff
        through our Professional Development Programme, including sessions around
        unconscious bias (now mandatory), race awareness, mental health, trans awareness and
        sensory impairments. In 2021 we will fund at least two places on Advance
        HE’s Diversifying Leadership Programme.




                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 The UoC punches well above its weight in supporting the development of impactful, needs-
 focused R&I activity through a variety of funding streams. Our funding allocations across the
 REF2021 assessment period (UKRI figures for 2019/20 combining QR, SPF, GCRF and HEIF
 monies) currently rank 5th out of 15 Cathedrals Group HEIs (GBP1,169,343), behind only the
 Universities of Roehampton, Canterbury Christ Church, Chester, and Gloucestershire. This is
 especially notable considering that, by student numbers, the UoC is the 10th smallest HEI in this
 group.

 These achievements are exceeded by our other externally sourced annual research income
 streams, which amount to over GBP1,300,000 (2019/20). Most notably, since 2015, the Institute
 of Sport (IoS) has worked to deliver on a series of prestigious contracts with the UK Ministry of
 Defence, receiving a total research income of GBP5,272,915. We are committed to raising these
 figures substantially over the coming decade.


 Functional Infrastructure

 As part of our flourishing research culture, we have, across the assessment period, hosted 10
 formal Research Centres and Research Groups dedicated to specialist areas of academic
 interest. These reveal the diverse range of research specialisms at the UoC – a key means of
 facilitating cross-institutional impact:
    -   Centre for Sustainable Business
    -   Centre for Special Education and Disability Studies
    -   Iris Murdoch Research Centre
    -   People and Wellbeing in the Everyday Research (POWER) Centre
    -   Centre for Workforce Development
    -   Chichester Centre for Fairy Tales, Fantasy and Speculative Fictions
    -   South Coast Eighteenth-Century and Romantic Research Group
    -   Occupational Performance Research Group
    -   Clem Burke Drumming Project
    -   Anita White Foundation

 Alongside regular research seminars, all our academic areas host Public Lectures, Open
 Lectures and Inaugural (Professorial) Lectures, which are typically advertised centrally and open
 to all.


 Physical Infrastructure
 The UoC’s cutting-edge Tech Park puts a little STEAM behind STEM. By bringing together
 science, technology, engineering, arts, and mathematics courses on one state-of-the-art site,
 with a wealth of industry-standard facilities, we are producing graduates that have enterprise
 skills, creativity, technical knowledge and are equipped to enter the graduate workforce. Our
 existing departments of Engineering and Design and Creative and Digital Technologies are
 based in the Tech Park, alongside the Business School. The Tech Park has received funding
 from HEFCE and the Coast to Capital Local Enterprise Partnership.

 Our campuses offer a wide range of facilities, available to all our research-active staff and
 PGRs. Both have Learning Resource Centres (LRCs) containing a Support and Information
 Zone (our ‘go-to’ professional services interface), Mac and PC suites, printing and scanning
 facilities, PrintShop services, equipment loan services and dedicated/flexible study
 spaces.


                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Additionally, our research community is able to take advantage of the following (this list is not
 exhaustive):
    - 2 library buildings, containing 802 study spaces, 208,081 physical items, access to
        over 200,000 ebooks and 80,000 journal titles, and 614 metres of archival and
        special collection materials, all available to view on request (including through an in-
        house digitisation service)
    - Dedicated laboratory facilities for all relevant subject areas
    - World class interdisciplinary facilities at the BRC Tech Park (including one of only 3
        recording spaces nationwide that can house a symphony orchestra)
    - The ShowRoom (BRC), a 250-seat theatre with advanced sound and light equipment
    - The world class Tudor Hale Centre for Sport and Sports Dome (BRC)
    - A state-of-the-art Music Block (BRC)
    - A large, flexible 400 square metre ‘CDIO’ ‘making space’ where engineers and artists
        alike can realise their visions in material forms




                                                                                             Page 10
