Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: Edge Hill University

 1. Context and mission
 Founded in 1885, Edge Hill University (EHU) was England’s first non-denominational teacher
 training college for women outside London. Now with over 15,000 undergraduate and
 postgraduate students, and over 1500 staff, including approximately 600 academics, we have
 three faculties: Arts and Sciences (FAS), Education (FoE), and Health, Social Care and
 Medicine (FHSCM). Unaligned to any mission group, we achieved university status in 2006 and
 research degree awarding powers in 2008. While we have participated in the RAE/REF since
 1996, our research environment has undergone very significant improvement since 2008. In
 REF2014 we returned 138.5 FTE (27.2%) achieving 2.22 GPA, compared to 65.01 FTE (14%) in
 2008, 1.5 GPA. In REF2021 we submit 259.2 FTE (47.5%).
 Our mission it to provide an intellectually stimulating, creative and inclusive environment for our
 community through teaching and learning of the highest standard, supported by pure and
 applied research of international significance, giving a firm foundation for our graduates and
 other stakeholders in a rapidly changing world. Our roots are in widening access, providing
 opportunities in education and social advancement for those who would otherwise be denied.
 This is a history of which we are proud, and the principles of fairness, accessibility and inclusion
 continue to underpin our mission. We are a modern university that regards the integration of
 research, advanced scholarship and professional practice with life-long learning opportunities as
 integral to securing the future of individuals and societies.
 Situated in Ormskirk, West Lancashire, our immediate environment is rural, with the major cities
 of Liverpool and Manchester and other urban areas such as Wigan and Preston close by. There
 are also local areas of significant deprivation, such as Kirkby and Skelmersdale. We are also
 close to important natural environments, such as the Sefton coast (a site of special scientific
 interest) and open grasslands of the Pennines. These immediate environments influence our
 research projects and our partnerships: for example, tackling questions of inequalities relating to
 health, well-being and educational attainment, and the challenges of sustainability.
 A significant element of our teaching portfolio is focused on public service: alongside nurses,
 midwives, paramedics and teachers, we now train doctors and police officers. These areas of
 practice inform our research in terms of the questions we ask, the collaborators we work with
 and how we support and develop our people.

 2. Strategy
 EHU’s ambition is that our research expertise makes a difference to our local communities and
 partners, whilst also making significant contributions to global debates and challenges. We want
 our research to be accessible to all and we marry our teaching and research agendas wherever
 possible to expose our students (often from low university participation neighbourhoods) to the
 benefits and excitement of the research process: we believe this not only provides researchers
 with a stimulating environment, but it also enhances the student experience.
 Strategic goals 2014-2020
    1. To produce world-class research outputs which achieve impact outside of the academy
        •   Growing the reach and impact of our research, alongside its quality and scale has
            been a key aim during this REF period. We have significantly increased the volume of
            outputs in peer reviewed journals, produced books with publishers recognised for
            their quality and created practice-as-research (PaR) outputs in established and
            innovative arenas. Enhancing our ability to contribute knowledge and expertise to
            benefit research users and partners has been central to research planning (see
            Research Institutes and Centres below). Internal funding support requires impact
            plans to be embedded in bids (alongside commitment to research integrity, open
            research and data management plans).



                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    2. To attract, retain, nurture and develop academic staff, supporting and enhancing their
       research aspirations
        •   We believe that people are the lifeblood of the organisation and investment here is
            key for both sustainability and vitality of research. We focus on research mentorship
            and provide significant support for ECRs through internal research-support funds and
            a comprehensive development programme which complements departmental
            provision. We have invested in research leaders and actively supported staff to
            progress through the grades to ensure sustainability: see section 3.
    3. To attract more postgraduate research students and manage their timely and successful
       completion
        •   In REF2014, we had 15 PhD awards: we invested in our Graduate Teaching
            Assistant (GTA) programme to develop our PGR community and report 124 awards
            for REF2021 (plus an additional four PhDs-by-publication). As our research networks
            and partnerships grow, we are securing external funding to support PGRs and
            departments are rewarded when they secure external funding with an additional
            EHU-funded studentship.
    4. To provide the highest-quality facilities, resources and environment in which research
       may flourish (see section 4)
    5. To increase research income and overhead recovery
        •   In REF2014 we recognised that securing research income was an area for
            development to ensure sustainability and to invest more in research infrastructure. In
            this REF cycle we have increased our external research income from by 156% to
            £5,476,010; including approximately £1m in contributions to overheads (see also
            section 4).
    6. To form strategic partnerships to enhance our research culture and promote impact
        •   Strategic partnerships, particularly those that help to align teaching, research and
            knowledge exchange, have grown considerably, as evidenced in REF5b narratives.
            Our long tradition of practice-related research has provided foundations to grow
            partnerships with schools, other educational settings, hospitals, hospices, charities
            and local community groups to develop research that has the beneficiaries at its core.
            Encouraging researchers to consider the needs of users is promoted by the strategic
            use of research support funds. For example, we have built key partnerships with
            government bodies (Sport England, Natural England) and national cultural bodies
            (Tate). These partnerships have been central to securing research funds, including
            UKRI funds.
    7. Provide the right research environment through investment in facilities and infrastructure
        •   We are committed to open research and encourage the deposit of outputs and data
            wherever possible through our research and data repositories. Without OA transition
            funds, we use QR to support OA costs and are actively engaged with securing ‘read-
            and-publish’ deals with publishers that facilitate ‘gold’ OA.
        •   We post annual reports on the Concordat for Research Integrity and promote good
            governance and personal research integrity through staff development and induction
        •   In addition, we have invested in physical and non-physical infrastructure to support
            high-quality research (section 4).
 Research institutes and centres
 Capitalising on our research and impact strengths, we invested in our three research institutes
 (RI) now complemented by seven research centres promoting interdisciplinarity and
 partnerships; these have been key to realising our strategic goals, bringing together staff and
 PGR students and underpinning work with key partners, thereby driving research and impact.
 Each RI has an annual £25k research-support budget to cover directly-incurred costs for

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 projects, which complements other central support funding. The Institute for Creative Enterprise
 (ICE) focuses broadly on the creative industries – along with its work with Everton in the
 Community (EitC) and the Tate, it has also been central to raising artist Leonora Carrington’s
 profile (see UOA34); the Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR) critically examines broad
 conceptualisations of social responsibility across the social sciences, arts and humanities – it
 has been central to the securing of two AHRC awards working with community organisations
 (UOA34); the Health Research Institute (HRI) drives collaborative research, evaluation, clinical
 education and care delivery: partners and funders include Alder Hey Children’s NHS Foundation
 Trust and the NIHR (see UOA3).
 A vibrant intellectual environment is reflected in the annual Festival of Ideas co-organised by the
 RIs which bring thousands of people on to campus to listen to thinkers and practitioners
 debating the challenges of the day. Events here have supported collaborations, including award
 winning work with EitC and Tate Liverpool which brings together researchers, students and
 collaborators to address poor mental health in a deprived neighbourhood (UOA24); other
 examples are highlighted in REF5b narratives.
 Partnership work and bringing research users to the heart of the research process underpin our
 research centres. New centres, such as the Centre for Child Protection and Safeguarding in
 Sport (CPSS), the Respiratory Research Centre, the Centre for Human Animal Studies (CfHAS)
 and the International Centre on Racism (ICR), build on growing areas of expertise. The
 interdisciplinary institutes and centres have taken on the aim of building broad, rich and
 sustainable partnerships at all levels, thinking globally and acting locally to address major
 challenges. Recent examples of impact from their work include: rethinking relationships with
 animals as food (CfHAS with the Vegan society); prevention of child sexual abuse in sport
 (CPSS with the NWG network and Sport England); enhancing public understanding and policy
 debates on anti-Semitism and Islamophobia (ICR with European University Institute).
 Research Strategy 2021-2026
 For the next five years, capacity building will continue with four key strategic objectives (below).
 Our primary commitment is to expand the production of high-quality research that addresses the
 challenges we face, while staying true to our long-held beliefs of promoting inclusion and
 engaging with marginalised groups. To do this we will:
    1. Invest in people:
            a. Recruitment of people who are committed to generating exciting, relevant
               research which informs their teaching.
            b. Support staff, including post-doctoral researchers, to develop their research
               aspirations and careers.
            c. Invest in research leadership through targeted training and development
            d. Continued investment in the next generation of researchers with support for PGR
               students, balancing the GTA scheme with an increase in externally-funded
               studentships.
            e. Continue to integrate students into staff research programmes to help raise their
               aspirations and ambitions, and to invest in the next generation of researchers.
            f.   Regularly reviewing our strategies, policies and support mechanisms to ensure
                 that they benefit all academics and researchers equally.
    2. Ensure the sustainability of our research by securing external funds and investing
       internal funds strategically, through:
            a. Preparedness for calls from UKRI and other funders by aligning our research to
               priority areas.
            b. Investing our QR strategically in:




                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                     i. Pump-priming research to enable researchers to develop strong
                        programmes of research, attracting further funds (see section 4)
                    ii. Supporting ECRs to consolidate their research profile, including priority
                        access to internal research funds.
                    iii. Supporting colleagues returning from extended periods of leave including
                         parental/adoption leave, sickness or secondments through priority access
                         to internal funds – this will be extended to support people whose research
                         has been particularly affected by COVID-19.
    3. Optimise the relatively small size of Edge Hill to facilitate cross-disciplinary working and
       engage partners locally, nationally and internationally to address the Government’s IRIS
       themes and priorities identified in the UKRI Roadmap by:
             a. Supporting research excellence wherever it is found within the University,
                complementing discipline-based research with encouraging the formation of
                cross-disciplinary research centres to develop research projects which work on a
                large scale, to ensure their sustainability and capacity for making an impact.
             b. Establishing a Data Science STEM institute which builds on existing research in
                AI and autonomous vehicles, as well as work in Biology and Geosciences to
                examine clean growth from a multidisciplinary perspective.
             c. Broadening our range of partnerships to co-produce and/or develop research with
                users and beneficiaries including regional businesses, the general public,
                professional practitioners (including those in the creative industries), and policy
                makers.
             d. Expanding our disciplinary base – we established a Medical School in 2019 and
                an Engineering Department is currently being created; research in these areas
                will enhance how we engage with key challenges and priorities such as healthy
                ageing.
    4. Invest in the research environment:
             a. Invest in research infrastructure, maximising synergies with teaching needs, and
                make facilities open to partners wherever possible to enhance networking.
             b. Promote the University as a space for intellectual exchange by hosting and
                developing events that encourage debate and engagement, including our
                established annual Festival of Ideas.
             c. Growing open research with access both to research data and outputs, and
                enhance the visibility of our research through optimising Pure and Figshare. We
                will use QR-funds strategically to support OA, particularly where findings are of
                interest to countries on the ODA list. We are exploring options for OA books and
                chapters, particularly for humanities and social science researchers, building on
                the steps we have already taken in making chapters OA.
             d. Maintain rigorous governance infrastructure that is fit-for-purpose and able to
                respond to the changing needs of our researchers as we move into new areas of
                research.



 3. People
 Success can only be achieved with the full engagement and commitment of staff and students;
 EHU strives to create an outstanding environment, underpinned by our ethos of inclusivity with
 transparency, consistency and fairness, to enable our community to perform to the highest
 standards and ultimately support the long-term sustainability and success of the University.



                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 EHU’S People Plan (PP) (2020-25) is underpinned by two themes: well-being for all, and
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI).
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our core aim is to recruit and retain excellent staff and to support them to realise their own
 ambitions and those of EHU.
 Recruit:
    •      Our selection process is based on merit, thorough appropriate assessment against the
           agreed criteria for successful delivery of the role. All panel members must attend in-
           house training on recruitment, selection, and EDI.
    •      We appoint at all career stages and employ our academic staff on the same teaching and
           research contracts in recognition of the variety of responsibilities our academic staff
           undertake.
    •      We strive to be an equal opportunities employer; this includes producing annual equality
           impact assessments (EqIAs) of our recruitment and selection processes and regular
           benchmarking against national standards
              o   As identified in our Athena Swan and HR Excellence in Research Award
                  (HREiRA) action plans, we have reviewed the language used in our job adverts
                  and descriptions, and increased the reach of our job opportunities to attract a
                  more diverse pool of applicants.
 Retain:
    •      Part-time and fixed-term staff: all staff have equal access to training and development
           opportunities and to the internal research support funds and bid support resources (see
           section 4)
    •      PDRAs: Our small community of post-doctoral researchers on fixed-term contracts have
           access to the same resources as academic staff. As numbers increase, this will be
           reviewed to ensure that we meet our Concordat responsibilities.
    •      Flexible working: staff may apply for a change in their terms and conditions to facilitate
           flexible working if the changes relate to hours, times, or the location they are required to
           work. Departments also facilitate informal flexible arrangements to manage short-term
           changes to working patterns.
    •      Promotion: our Athena Swan action plan led to the review of promotion processes to
           improve consistency and transparency. Promotion to grade 11 and above now reflects
           one of three pathways: learning and teaching, research, or external engagement.
           Promotion opportunities occur annually and all academic staff are eligible to apply. The
           process is based on merit, through appropriate assessment against the agreed criteria.
           Staff are supported to achieve promotion through agreed development plans.
    •      Wellbeing: HR provides a range of benefits to complement statutory obligations, these
           include:
              o   Phased return to work
              o   Wellbeing sessions and campaigns to promote physical and mental health
              o   Mental health support resources, including the counselling service and ‘big white
                  wall’
              o   Staff benefits – including annual ‘flu jabs and financial planning support
              o   Support networks – e.g. LGBTQ+, carers group.
 Develop:
    •      Induction: support begins with a comprehensive induction programme to promote
           knowledge and understanding of staff rights and obligations, as well as familiarity with

                                                                                                  Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        the key codes of practice which frame their practice (including the CoP for Research
        Conduct and the code of conduct for PGR supervisors)
    •   Probation and performance and development review (PDR): all new staff, regardless of
        seniority and contract-type, undergo a year-long probation. When complete, they move to
        annual PDR with six-monthly progress review. Here research and development goals are
        identified, and managers and staff-members discuss how these will be realised and what
        support is needed.
    •   Staff development: we provide a range of mandatory and optional development
        opportunities run by HR, the Research Office, Centre for Learning and Teaching, and
        Learning Services. HR focuses on core mandatory staff training (including ‘Diversity in
        the workplace’ and, for senior managers, ‘Unconscious bias workshop’), people
        management, and mentoring and coaching. The RO coordinates the Researcher
        Development Programme which is benchmarked against Vitae’s Researcher
        Development Framework: this is open to PDRAs, PGR students and associate tutors.
    •   Study/exam leave: all staff are granted 1.5 days paid leave per exam for revision and
        attendance or if their programme of assessment is coursework based
    •   Time to train: staff can request time to undertake any training which they believe will
        improve their professional effectiveness and the performance of the University. There is
        no limit on the amount of time for study/training that can be requested and, though there
        is no right to be paid for the time spent training, flexible working and workload allocations
        can be used to accommodate this (agreed in PDR).
            o   Staff who are studying for a PhD and transitioning to research independence are
                allocated enhanced staff development to provide time to engage.
            o   We established a PhD by Publication route for staff with suitable research
                publications; we awarded our first in 2016.
            o   EHU provides time and funding for staff to engage in external development
                activities e.g. Advance HE’s Aurora programme.
            o   These allocations are part of the minimum of ten days staff development (pro rata
                for part-time staff) reflecting our commitment to the Concordat to Support the
                Career Development of Researchers.
 Support for early career researchers:
 Supporting ECRs is key to ensure vitality and sustainability: in REF2014, 25% of our submission
 was made up of ECRs – we have supported their development with priority access to internal
 research funds and mentoring. Of the 20 submitted in 2014 who are submitted again here, eight
 are now readers/professors. Some ECRs may be established staff members who have gained
 their PhD while in post, possibly after many years in practice. UOAs have processes to support
 these post-doctoral staff to transition to independent researchers. We encourage pre-doctoral
 practice-based staff to become involved in research projects as ‘novice’ researchers where their
 expertise can enhance the research: this may be the beginning of a research career. Our
 biennial ECR conference and poster competition, with prizes of professional development funds,
 is open to post-doctoral ECRs, PGRs and ‘novice’ researchers to support networking,
 presentation skills and interdisciplinary working.
 PGR students
 We have invested QR in our GTA programme because we believe that a thriving PGR
 community is key to a healthy research environment. The growth of PhD completions (727%)
 reflects our commitment to supporting the development of the next generation of researchers.
 The GTA programme is central to this growth: starting with an annual recruitment to one faculty
 of twelve students, it has expanded to 30-36 appointments per year. Our ethos is that PGR
 students are apprentice researchers rather than students (without diminishing their rights and
 privileges as students). They have access to the same training and development opportunities


                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 as staff members. Our GTAs have a strong record of moving onto appointments as lecturers,
 post-docs and industry professionals.
 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 We established our EDI Steering Group (EDISG) in 2019, chaired by Dean of FOE with senior
 staff from across the University. This is supported by an EDI Operations Group (EDIOG) that
 delivers on strategy and informs the review and renewal of our policies: both the EDISG and the
 EDIOG have members from all areas of the University and work holistically to include student
 and staff-facing activities. The HR EDI lead promotes coherence in, and rigorous monitoring of,
 our approach to EDI.
 Compliance with sector EDI standards is reflected in the following:
    •   Athena SWAN institutional bronze award (renewed in 2019)
    •   HR Excellence in Research Award (HREiRA) (renewal submission February 2021).
    •   Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards, highly commended
        workplace of the year (2017)
    •   Disability Confident employer
    •   Mindful employer status
    •   Partnership with Working Families
    •   Stonewall Champion and recognition of our commitment to LGBTQ+ rights
    •   Equal pay audits
    •   We provide 10 funded places per year on Advanced HE’s Aurora programme.


 Over the course of the next REF census period, we:
    •   Aim to achieve the Race Equality Charter and support more departments to achieve their
        own Athena Swan awards, including our first silver award.
    •   Expand the use of EqIA on key processes beyond REF preparations, including outcomes
        of internal research funding applications, and take appropriate action based on the
        outcomes. The EqIAs and action plans will be reported annually to the University
        Research Committee.
    •   Annual analysis of promotion and progression processes to ensure that any unevenness
        is identified and addressed.



 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The University recognises that strategic investment in infrastructure and facilities is essential to
 ensure the vitality and sustainability of research and the generation of impact. We do this
 through: bid development support; support for partnership development and outreach;
 investment in buildings and equipment; and development of research culture.
 Bid development
 Growing external income is essential for the health of research, particularly in resource-heavy
 disciplines. It also helps support the growth of PGRs and post-docs. In the current REF cycle,
 income has increased by 156%: this has come from a range of sources including UKRI research
 councils, NIHR, European Commission, charities, commercial partners and others. An
 increasing proportion of these funds come from funders who provide a higher proportion of fEC,
 vital for long-term sustainability. Particular successes include a major BBSRC award to
 investigate novel antibiotics (UOA4); our first two Leverhulme fellowships (UOA 20 & 28);
 Innovate UK Biomedical Research Catalyst funding (UOA 3) and Horizon 2020 awards

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (UOA11), our first ever projects funded by a European research and innovation framework
 programme. Recently grants have been secured from the AHRC (UOA 27 & 34); Leverhulme
 (UOA27) and Erasmus+ (UOA18 and UOA20). We have achieved this by:
    •   Investment in the Research Office to help support academics to make successful bids
        and to maximise their impact: this is evidenced by the increase in bids submitted from 44
        with a value of £2.2m in 2013/14 to 163 in 2019/20, with a value of £12.6m – five bids
        were successful in 2013/14 (£80k) and 38 in 2019/20 (£773k). This reflects a total award
        value for the REF2021 period of £12.9m (£5.9m for EHU).
    •   Providing dedicated research contracts and research post-award finance support.
    •   Research institutes have established bid-development initiatives and mentoring schemes
        for staff at different career stages.
    •   Research support funds: to support the appointment of research assistants; teaching
        buy-out; research consumables, fieldtrips, conference attendance etc. Funding decisions
        are made by a peer reviewer panel with representatives from all faculties and expertise in
        the main disciplines of arts and humanities, social sciences, and sciences, with the
        following award types:
           o   Research Investment Fund: RIF supports staff to pump prime external bids and
               has a strand that prioritises ECRs and staff returning from extended leave,
               including parental leave
           o   Research Institute Thematic Awards (RITAs) (2015-2019) explicitly supported
               interdisciplinary research (this is now managed directly by our RIs)
           o   Conference support: we understand the importance of conference attendance
               (normally one per year) to academics in disseminating research and gaining
               feedback of research under development. Central funds will support up to 50% of
               conference costs and, to be highly responsive, we review applications monthly.
           o   External funding rewards – when successful in securing external research grants,
               researchers may claim an award (a percentage of the award value) to use on
               research-related activity.
           o   PGR Bursary: PGR students have access to ring-fenced funds to support their
               studies and conference attendance, in addition to departmental funds.
 Support for partnership development and outreach
 Networking and partnership development are key to ensuring the researchers consider the
 needs of research users and we believe that research can be enhanced by collaborative working
 alongside users of research throughout the research process, as well as through co-production.
 All UOAs have established networks to identify research challenges and priorities.
    •   Each faculty has its own business-development team that supports work with research
        users and help to develop partnerships: notably the Productivity and Innovation Centre
        has generated over 120 relationships with SMEs, some of which will become research
        partnerships.
    •   The RO has a Research Impact Manager who provides support for the planning,
        development and delivery of research impact, and training and development of
        researchers.
    •   Internal funds support partnership building, alongside the RITAs identified above:
           o   Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund (IKEF): this fund aligns with our strategic
               aims to increase collaboration and external engagement, enhance knowledge
               exchange and place impact at the heart of our research planning and
               development.
           o   Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF): to support and promote engagement
               with ODA compliant research; the University remains committed to continuing this

                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                with its own QR funds in the light of recent government decision to suspend this
                allocation.
    •   The RIs are central to supporting partnership development and incorporate external
        partners, including end-users and professional practitioners, on their governance
        structures and decision-making bodies.
 Investment in buildings and facilities
 We believe that investment in physical research support is central to attracting the best
 researchers and PGRs and to allow researchers to expand their research. Some of these
 facilities support cross-disciplinary working.
    •   Investment in the built environment includes: the Catalyst, the £26m learning resource
        centre, was opened in 2019 which has the Loft, a dedicated workspace, for researchers
        (staff and PGRs) to use for quiet study; the £13m (including £3m grant from the
        Lancashire LEP) Tech Hub, with its 4k computer assisted virtual environment (CAVE),
        opened in 2016 and is used for teaching, knowledge exchange and research; the
        Medical School has a multi-professional clinical learning centre; new state-of-art Biology
        laboratories to facilitate a range of research and a purposely refurbished building for
        Psychology, which includes research labs.
    •   Equipment: investment in equipment has also included for world-class laboratories in
        Computer Science and Sport and Physical Activity, and for HTA activity.
 We also recognise the importance of other research support infrastructure, in particular to
 ensure that our research is carried out safely and ethically, reflecting the highest standards of
 integrity:
    •   A comprehensive research-governance structure - we reviewed and enhanced our
        governance infrastructure which led to investment in an online ethics monitor (Haplo) to
        make project registration and ethical review process more efficient and transparent. This
        was underpinned by establishing five subject research ethics committees whose
        members are trained using resources informed by UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO).
    •   Acquiring the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) licence in 2015 (and suitable storage
        facilities): overseen by the HTA Management Group to ensure best practice and monitor
        compliance. This has helped broaden our research base, particularly in Sports Science
        and Psychology.
    •   The University is a signatory of DORA and committed to the Leiden manifesto leading to
        a statement on the use of metrics to guide staff and managers. We are mindful of the
        benefits and limitations of research indicators which come with the increase in data on
        research performance. We do not use metrics and indicators to judge individual research
        performance (for recruitment, progression, or promotion), or access to resources.
    •   Investment in systems/software: acquisitions since 2014 include Pure, Figshare and
        Haplo and subscriptions to ORCiD and DMPonline – these help academics to track
        applications and manage research projects etc., as well as helping managers to ensure
        that rigorous processes of review are being carried out.
 We have put in place the infrastructure and governance arrangements which will enable EHU
 enhance very significantly its research stature over the coming decade.




                                                                                               Page 9
