Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Coventry University

 1. Context and mission

Coventry University is forward looking and dynamic with a mission of ‘Creating better futures’. We
work with our partners to ensure that our students are prepared for their futures and that our research
is impactful. We are an anchor institution which invests, directly and indirectly, in our city and region.
Approximately one third of our academic staff contribute to our research mission and, as of the 31 st
July 2020, the University had 1,820 academic staff, 38,449 students and a turnover of £428M.

At the time of the REF2014 submission, we were renowned for our teaching excellence and strong
tradition of delivering applied research, influencing policy and practice, supporting business, and
enriching our education provision. The outcome of REF2014 recognised the small clusters of
internationally excellent research dispersed across Coventry. To build on this excellence, maintain
our focus on relevant research, and further enhance our teaching, we began the current REF period
with a new ‘Excellence with Impact’ strategy which has transformed our research activity. Figure 1
shows that, following significant investment and senior management support, we focused our
research into 14 challenge-led multi-disciplinary research centres, where all staff with significant
responsibility for research (SRR) are based. Our REF2021 submission shows a threefold increase
in our return, and 85% of staff submitted are new to Coventry.

Figure 1: Research Centres, showing primary alignment and growth with all four REF Main Panels;
staff and research student numbers (at census date); research funding portfolios and FTE returned
to REF2021 compared to REF2014.

                          Research Centres                                   REF2021        REF2014
 Panel A




            93 Staff      Intelligent Healthcare (IH)
           123 PGR        Sports, Exercise and Life Sciences (SELS)          44.2 FTE       31.6 FTE
             £8.3m        Global Learning and Education (GLEA)

                          Fluid and Complex Systems (FCS)
 Panel B




           200 Staff
                          Future Transport and Cities (FTC)
           209 PGR                                                          137.4 FTE       40.7 FTE
                          Built and Natural Environment (BNE)
            £25.1m
                          Data Science (DS)

                          Agroecology Water and Resilience (AWR)
 Panel C




           224 Staff
                          Business in Society (BIS)
           268 PGR                                                          200.5 FTE       46.1 FTE
                          Financial and Corporate Integrity (FCI)
            £29.5m
                          Trust Peace and Social Relations (TPSR)
 Panel D




           82 Staff       Arts, Memory and Communities (AMC)
           72 PGR         Centre for Post Digital Cultures (PDC)             69.8 FTE       34.5 FTE
            £4.0m         Centre for Dance Research (DARE)

                          Total                                             451.9FTE        153.0 FTE




                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


The success of this strategy has been recognised and is set to continue into the next REF period.
Since the census date, we have strengthened the senior research leadership team, refreshed our
Research Services provision, established a new research centre, invested further in research
infrastructure, and nearly doubled our investment in studentships.

 2. Strategy

This REF period coincided with the first stage of our 15-20 year research strategy, and Coventry’s
largest ever research investment in people, facilities and infrastructure. We consolidated dispersed
areas of research into stand-alone centres and invested in areas that align to local, national and
international challenges, informed by the UK Industrial Strategy and the UN Sustainable
Development Goals. This strategic focus on our research, research students and investment has
developed cohesive research identities provided physical places for staff and students to engage in
research and develop the ambition, skills and connections that have delivered world-leading
research.

Figure 2: Research organisation chart


                              Deputy-Vice-Chancellor Research


            Academic Leadership                           Professional Services Leadership

   Deputy-Vice-Chancellor Research                    Director of Research Services
                                                      (Development, Delivery, Finance,
   Four Associate Deans for Research                  Administration, Excellence and Ethics)
   Health and Life Sciences
   Engineering, Environment and Computing             Director of the Doctoral College
   Business and Law                                   (Student Life Cycle, Research Capability
   Arts and Humanities                                Training)


               Research Centres                                    Other Services

   •   Intelligent Healthcare                         •   Associate Heads of School Research
   •   Sports, Exercise and Life Sciences             •   Library
   •   Fluid and Complex Systems                      •   Registry
   •   Future Transport and Cities                    •   Marketing and External Affairs
   •   Built and Natural Environment                  •   People Team
   •   Data Science                                   •   Digital Team
   •   Agroecology Water and Resilience               •   Strategy and Planning
   •   Business in Society                            •   Enterprise and Innovation
   •   Financial and Corporate Integrity              •   Estates
   •   Trust Peace and Social Relations               •   International
   •   Global Learning and Education                  •   Legal
   •   Arts, Memory and Communities                   •   Business Transformation
   •   Centre for Post Digital Cultures               •   Policy Unit
   •   Centre for Dance Research




                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
To accelerate this shift of focus to research excellence and the associated culture change,
leadership, management, support and finances of our centres is centrally coordinated by the Deputy-
Vice-Chancellor for Research (DVCR) (Figure 2). Four Associate Deans for Research (ADRs) align
to the REF Main Panels, providing discipline leadership in their area. Each centre is led by an
Executive Director (reporting into the DVCR or one of the four ADRs) supported by a dedicated
operations team, central Research Services, the Doctoral College and Centre for Research
Capability Training (ReCap) and an Enterprise and Innovation Office (EIO).

Our research community, across and between all levels of staff and students, is tight-knit and inter-
connected. The challenge-led nature of our research means we routinely work across centres and
disciplines with diverse stakeholders, encouraging collegiate and inter-connected working.
Communication across centres is facilitated by regular meetings and strategy days involving
research leadership and related professional services. This approach enables prompt and
considered responses to external and internal demands; strategic resource allocation; direction and
application of strategy and effective responses to challenges and opportunities created by a growing
research base. Inclusive collaboration is also fostered at the Early Career Researcher (ECR) and
research student levels through fora and events coordinated by our Doctoral College.

Research and Impact Strategy
Our overarching focus, since 2014, has been ‘Excellence with Impact’ (Figure 3). We declared and
achieved an ambition of trebling our submission to REF2021 cf REF2014, with a concomitant
increase in research quality. We strategically selected metrics to benchmark our improvement in
quality, with an ambition to be better than the UK sector average by the end of 2021. (Table 1).

Table 1: Institutional publication data outlining improvement since 2014 cf UK average
                                         Coventry            Coventry            UK Sector
 Metric                                  University 2014     University 2020     Average
                                                                                 2020
 Outputs in top 10% cited papers
                                 10.8%                       16.2%                15.8%
 worldwide (field weighted)
 Outputs in top 25% of Journal
                               48.8%                         59.7%                62.7%
 Percentiles by SNIP

 Outputs internationally co-authored    37.6%                62.0%                60.2%

Source: SciVal, 23/03/2021

Our approach to impact acceleration is grounded in developing strategic partnerships to identify
challenge-based research questions; co-create research proposals and embed partners within
centres. We have successfully built collaborations with local, national and international stakeholders
such as: Coventry Cathedral, Compton Verney Art Gallery, Severn Trent, TWI, the National
Engineering Laboratory and the United Nations. Our greatest impact occurs when researchers are
‘at-elbow’ and co-located with our partners. For example, our Centre for Agroecology Water and
Resilience is based alongside Garden Organic at Ryton Gardens and our Centre for Advanced Low
Carbon Propulsion is a joint venture with German Automotive Consultants FEV, placing our partner
and researchers together in a purpose-built facility on our technology park.




                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Our impact case studies demonstrate the benefit of working with partners. With many staff new to
Coventry during this period, we have produced underpinning research and generated impact for our
case studies in a single REF cycle. Our ability to do this demonstrates the success of our impact
acceleration strategy and the full fruits of this will be seen in the next cycle.

Stakeholder engagement
Our stakeholder engagement strategy of developing academic partnerships/networks locally,
nationally and internationally has been essential in delivering research excellence and impact
acceleration. Our relationship with external partners enables us to realise research impact. A
significant proportion of this engagement is delivered through the centres with academic and impact
partners identified and developed at centre formation. We deliberately recruit both career academics
and practitioners to instil a culture of relevance to our research and create, sustain and grow
stakeholder networks, while developing strategic partnerships. Our engagements are delivered
through the centres and supported by institutional frameworks:

 Academic Partnerships/Networks
 Support for developing research relationships is provided through Research Services, our
 international hubs and offices, and the Collaborative Programmes team in the Doctoral College,
 which handles our portfolio of cotutelle students (currently 49) with 16 universities ranging from
 the University of Warwick to Deakin University in Australia.
 Local
 Engagement with the City Council and Coventry and Warwickshire Local Enterprise Partnership
 (CWLEP) is led by our Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Strategy) who is strategy adviser for the
 CWLEP. Through CWLEP, we have received funding for our National Transport Design Centre
 (NTDC) and the extension to our Advanced Manufacturing Engineering (AME) Centre. We are
 involved with research-led initiatives with local organisations, including the RISING Global Peace
 Forum and the City of Culture 2021, which has led to funded projects working with local
 practitioners from the cultural and creative sector, charities and community groups.
 National
 We are part of the University Alliance Research and Innovation Network, which facilitates senior
 research leaders from like-minded modern universities to engage proactively on identifying future
 cutting-edge research opportunities, and provides engagement opportunities with key national
 research bodies.
 International
 Our international hubs and offices, in locations such as Brussels, Singapore, Dubai, and China,
 enable us to consolidate and extend international engagement through cotutelles and academic
 partnerships, engage with local academic networks, gain access to foreign government
 investment, generate impact and change policy.
 Impact
 A competitive annual impact acceleration fund (typically 10% of our QR income) helps generate
 impact from our research. Our Research Excellence team build in impact from research idea
 through to delivery and impact forms a significant part of the annual strategic research reviews
 chaired by the Vice-Chancellor (VC).
 Public
 We are committed to ensuring our communities benefit from being part of our research mission.
 For example, MiFriendly Cities relates to research on migration and social cohesion (Centre for
 Trust Peace & Social Relations (CTPSR)); a collaboration with Coventry University Social
 Enterprise CIC and the City Council, promoting, raising awareness of, and building the market for,

                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 refugee and migrant social enterprises within the West Midlands. We also use ‘Pint of Science’ to
 share our research with the wider community in city venues.
 Policy
 The centres work alongside Coventry’s Policy Unit to build links with representatives from local,
 national and international government and political parties. This ensures research is aligned to
 regional and national priorities, providing a mechanism for Coventry to respond to research-related
 policy consultations. Through working with the Industry and Parliament Trust, researchers are
 informed about Parliament/Government and connect with MPs, Ministers, Select Committees,
 Civil Servants and pressure groups and have refined skills in drafting policy briefings.
 Knowledge Exchange
 Our EIO supports developing non-academic partnerships and plays a pivotal role in the
 establishment of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, industry funded research degrees and
 supports the development of non-academic partnerships. Since 2015, we enrolled 109 industry
 funded PhDs, representing 26% of our PhD population (9% 2015). EIO also coordinates our CPD
 and Consultancy activities, further supporting knowledge exchange and influencing policy and
 practice.

Interdisciplinary research
Interdisciplinarity is hard-wired into the centres by bringing together researchers and external
stakeholders from a variety of disciplines to solve Grand Challenges. For example, the Institute of
Future Transport and Cities brings mechanical, electrical, manufacturing and materials engineers
together with designers and psychologists to work on future mobility challenges. This is supported
through internal and external sandpits (with academic and non-academic stakeholders), institutional
funding calls for PhD studentships and pump-prime funding for cross-centre projects. We are also a
partner in the University Alliance (Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action funded) Doctoral Training Alliance
which supports three interdisciplinary research programmes in Applied Biosciences for Health,
Energy and Social Policy.

Open research environment
We foster an open research environment by supporting participatory research, translating research
into more accessible formats, encouraging open data and mandating open access (OA).
Participatory research is embraced to ensure the inclusion of partners and beneficiaries across the
research life-cycle (co-creation, co-delivery, co-reporting). For example, we have invested
approximately £400k in research infrastructure to develop a citizen science focused FabLab
(CTPSR) which has engaged approximately 1,800 people from 51 countries in the co-creation of our
research. This research, directly aligned with our approach to citizen science, has been highlighted
by the European Commission as best practice.

As part of our impact strategy, we translate our research into a range of publicly accessible formats,
blogs, videos, white papers etc. Our dedicated Research Marketing and External Affairs (MEA) team
supports staff and students in their knowledge mobilisation activities. We have an institutional
membership of The Conversation and, in 2019/20, wrote 29 articles which received 893,545 reads,
with re-publishers including BBC, RTE and The Independent.

Our        approach     to     open      access    is    outlined   in      our     OA      policy
(https://libguides.coventry.ac.uk/rsp/openaccess) which requires deposit of all output types onto
Pure (our research information system and OA repository) (https://pureportal.coventry.ac.uk/) to
make these OA where copyright, funder stipulations and other conditions allow, with a preference

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
for the sustainable and cost-effective ‘green’ route. Since 2011, Coventry has supported the open-
source Open Journal Systems (OJS) (https://publications.coventry.ac.uk/) and now publishes
regular issues for two journals (with four in development) which attract international submissions and
have a range of international reviewers/editors, one of which is indexed by Scopus. The journals are
fully OA and do not attract charges. Our commitment to OA is further illustrated by our role as lead
partner, and investor, in the Community-led Open Publication Infrastructures for Monographs
(COPIM) project (https://copim.pubpub.org/).

Research ethics and integrity
The University’s Research Conduct and Ethics Policy (https://www.coventry.ac.uk/research/about-
us/research-ethics/) outlines our commitment and expectation that any research activity, undertaken
by staff or students, meets the highest ethical standards. A member of our Senior Research
Leadership Team (SRLT) is the University Ethics lead and chairs the University Research Ethics
Committee (comprising the centres’ Ethics Leads). A Research Ethics and Integrity Manager
(Research Services) supports and coordinates this activity, managing our ethics approval system
(updated 2019/20).

Coventry welcomed the revised UUK Concordat on research integrity (2019) and we completed a
comprehensive review of the commitments, resulting in a thorough action plan to ensure compliance.
Our Responsible Metrics Working Group, with academic and professional services representation,
embeds responsible metrics within University processes and meets the needs of all our funders and
disciplines. A key outcome from this group was the production of a Responsible Use of Indicators in
Research Evaluation Standard, aligning with the principles of the Leiden Manifesto.
(https://www.coventry.ac.uk/globalassets/media/documents/responsible-use-of-indicators-in-
research-evaluation-standard.pdf)

Strategic goals for research and impact over the next five years.
Global events of the last year show that research challenges are ever-changing. Our strategy, based
around challenge-led centres, successfully adapts to the ever-changing world. Our research
structure, reviewed and refreshed in 2020, sets the strategic foundation for the next five years (Figure
3). Our ambition, as articulated in our 2030 Corporate Strategy is to further enhance research quality,
to place us in the top quartile for research in REF2028 (Top 30 by 2030). We will retain our
transdisciplinary research centre approach, focusing on challenges, with an ambition to become
world-leading in each. We will grow our external income to increase research student numbers
(>1000 FTE), technical and administrative support, and ECR funding. This will be accompanied with
only a modest growth in our establishment, with an objective of submitting ~500 FTE to the next
REF.




                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



Figure 3: Strategic objectives and enablers for research




Our revised research structure (January 2021) demonstrates continued commitment to research. To
provide optimised research support, drive further improvements in research excellence, impact
acceleration and deliver research enriched learning, we created eight research institutes containing
our 14 centres (Figures 4 and 5). Each Institute Director holds specific functional leadership
responsibility to foster even deeper cross-centre collaboration, and support the DVCR in realising
our strategic ambitions. Furthermore, we have started the new REF period with over £8M committed
spend in 2020/21 for enhancing research infrastructure; over 100 new research student
scholarships, and the formation of a new Centre for Healthcare Research, to host our new Care
Excellence partnership with University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire.

Key areas of focus for the next period will be increasing diversity, especially at the senior level,
growing transdisciplinary research (built into the Grand Challenge nature of the institutes), enhancing
our approach to open research and further diversification of income, alongside QR funding, including
consultancy, research-led masters, CPD and contract research. This will provide funding to grow our
research base, focusing on the newer and smaller centres in the areas of Health and Wellbeing,
Global Education and Creative Cultures.

To support knowledge exchange and impact acceleration we are creating a number of challenge-led
innovation districts including: Clean Growth, Cultural and Creative, Ed Tech, Health and Wellbeing,
and Mobility. Anchored by the University, these districts will bring together companies to connect
with start-ups, business incubators and accelerators. Based in and around the city, they will exploit
the physical assets of the University and the proximity to housing, retail and office spaces to promote
an urban innovation ecosystem.




                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Figure 4: Research institutes and alignment with research centres and faculties




                                                                                  Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Figure 5: Research structure effective from January 2021




 3. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
Our research base has grown through a strong commitment to researcher development, talent
management and targeted recruitment into our centres.

We develop future talent by identifying and recruiting ECRs, promoting the ‘stars of the future’ from
research intensive universities. This, combined with targeted recruitment of professors (37), enabled
us to bring in expertise and mentorship from senior academics, building capability in strategic areas
to create vibrant, sustainable communities of practice with high-performing and ambitious teams.

SRR is evidenced through core or associate membership of a research centre as described in our
Code of Practice where staff are given time and resource to undertake and deliver internationally
leading research. Staff join centres via:
    • Core membership (directly employed by centres)
    • Associate membership (faculty-based staff) for minimum three-year secondment available to
       all staff who can move to core membership as their research careers develop.
    • Academic Support Programme in Research Excellence (ASPiRE) programme.
                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


To invest in early career talent, we recruit newly-awarded doctoral graduates into permanent roles
and our two-year structured ASPiRE programme supports them in becoming independent
researchers. Following successful completion, participants can apply for centre membership.
ASPiRE is one of three transition pathways supporting ECRs (Figure 6).

Figure 6: Transition pathways for ECRs




The Researcher Development Concordat principles and our action plan are at the heart of research
career   development.  (appendix-c-2019-21-action-plan-to-support-the-career-development-of-
researchers.pdf)

Our Doctoral College and ReCap (employability skills) support the research community, delivering
an evidence-based offer of development and training opportunities ‘from PhD to Professor’.
developmental pathways (https://recap.coventry.domains/), aligned to Vitae’s Researcher
Development Framework, assist researchers in selecting relevant opportunities. Further
development is provided through: Advance HE’s Aurora ‘Women in Leadership’; Coventry’s
leadership development programmes and Coaching and Mentoring Academy.

In addition to training and mentoring, ECRs engage with the assessment of applications for internal
investment (Section 4) through Coventry’s peer-review process and, with research students, are
embedded in decision-making, e.g., through membership of the University Research Committee and
Doctoral College Steering Committee. A quarterly ECR-led forum provides feedback to the DVCR,
ReCap and Research Leadership, shaping and developing our ECR development strategy. Targeted
links into taught modules provide pathways for research staff and students to contribute to teaching
within our Research Enriched Learning programme.


                                                                                           Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Support for Research Students
We create a dynamic environment for research students through investment in support mechanisms,
infrastructure and funded scholarships, funded through our QR budget.

We have established, and invested significantly in, our Doctoral College which provides centralised
administrative and pastoral research student support. The comprehensive development programme
supports students and their supervisors from admissions through to award. This investment has
transformed research student support activity, increasing numbers by over 100%. On-time
submission rates have increased to 85% over four years, and we aim to increase this over the next
five years.

The Doctoral College and ReCap collaborate with centres in innovative projects, actively promoting
inter-, trans- and multi-disciplinary collaboration. This structure is sector-leading, harnessing closer
interactions across disciplines and peer to peer support, thus ensuring quality, coherency and
consistency, fostering our ‘PhD to Professor’ ethos. Activities include Three Minutes Thesis,
Research Hootenanny, Capability and Development Conference, and Research Student of the Year.

Each research student is co-located with their supervisory teams (typically three) in the centres to
engage with a comprehensive training and development programme. This enables peer to peer
learning, encourages depth and rigour around research methodologies, creates strong and inter-
connected communities of researchers and provides students with high levels of support.

We have a growing number of students on the University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance
programme and the numbers of research students on the AHRC Midlands4Cities DTP and cotutelle
programmes also grows. We offer a diverse range of cohort-based training and career development
opportunities. Mobility schemes for both research students and ECRs encourage networking and
enables experiences of global research and work environments.

Our research and PhD recruitment (52% from outside the UK) are supported by our international
hubs, offices and networks. We work with regional governments, organisations and companies to
attract funding and students, e.g., the Indonesian Government and A*STAR (the Agency for Science,
Technology and Research) in Singapore. Our diverse research student population is reflected in
55% (census date) of our research student population being from a BAME background compared to
a sector average of 18% (Advance HE 2018/2019).

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Our diverse research population helps us achieve excellence; attracting, recruiting and retaining the
best research talent wherever that is found.

Coventry’s EDI team covers equality for staff, students and visitors. EDI Committees (EDIC) drive
forward the equality agenda at University and centre level. To support EDI within our Research
Community, a sub-committee for research (EDIC-R) boasts a strong, diverse membership of
researchers (from research student to professor). All University staff undertake specific EDI
mandatory online modules, including unconscious bias training. Staff are supported by equality
networks such as BAME staff, Cancer Support; LGBTQ+ Staff; Mental Health Support; Women in
Research, and Women's Network.




                                                                                               Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Our commitment to EDI is illustrated by our institutional and departmental (CTPSR) Athena Swan
Bronze Awards and we are supporting other centres to apply. We are recognised as a Disability
Confident Employer and Stonewall Diversity Champion. Since 2013, our innovative work in
developing an inclusive, research environment, supporting researchers at all stages of their career,
has been recognised with an HR Excellence in Research Award.

We compare the characteristics of the staff within centres to the faculties to identify and address
areas of under-representation. All centre members have equitable access to our research support
opportunities, functions and infrastructure.

We are proud of our staff data on age (Figure 7, Table 4), ethnicity (Figure 9, Table 3), gender (Figure
8, Table 2) and disability (Table 5) which compares favourably with the sector. Our average is above
the sector for staff from BAME backgrounds, and our young profile reflects the strategy of investing
in academics at earlier career stages.

Table 2: Recruitment by age profile of all staff

           <25      26-30     31-35       36-40      41-45      46-50        51-55   56-60       61-65   66+
 2014-
         1,304    1,129 1,121             923        816        650          527     400         162     83
 2020
Source: Coventry People Team

Figure 7: Age profile of research staff

25%

20%

15%

10%

  5%

  0%
        25 and    26-30     31-35     36-40          41-45     46-50         51-55   56-60       61-65   66 and
        under                                                                                             over
            Research Centres (all combined)                  Sector comparison (Teaching & Research)

Source: Coventry People Team, census date and Sector data, Advance HE, 2018/19

Table 3: Ethnicity of professors and senior staff

                                                BAME                    White                No data
 Average cohort % over REF period               10                      86                   4
Source: Coventry People Team



                                                                                                         Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Figure 8: Ethnicity of research staff
 100%

  80%

  60%

  40%

  20%

    0%
                              BAME                                         White
            Research Centres (all combined)             Sector comparison (Teaching & Research)

Source: Coventry People Team, census date and Sector data, Advance HE, 2018/19

Table 4: Gender of professors and senior staff

                                           Female                        Male
 Average cohort % over REF period          37.3                          62.7
Source: Coventry People Team

Figure 9: Gender distribution of research staff
 70%

 60%

 50%

 40%

 30%

 20%

 10%

  0%
                            Female                                          Male
            Research Centres (all combined)             Sector comparison (Teaching & Research)

Source: Coventry People Team, census date and Sector data, Advance HE, 2018/19

Table 5: Declared disability of research staff cohort

                                                                                   Not
                                           Disabled             Not Disabled
 Response                                                                          known/blank
 Average cohort % over REF period          4                    81                 15
Source: Coventry People Team

                                                                                           Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Gender pay gap
Coventry’s gender pay report for 2018 is available at:
https://www.coventry.ac.uk/the-university/key-information/equality-and-diversity/gender-pay-report/.
Although the Government suspended the requirement to complete and publish the Gender Pay
Report for 2019, Coventry completed the review. As a result of the actions we have taken, our mean
gender pay gap is below the national figure at 15.5% (2017: 16.3%) and our median gender pay gap
is 13.6% (2017: 13.7%).

Supporting policies and processes
Coventry operates a review and development process where staff and line managers agree
objectives, record actions and comments, and review performance and priorities in a flexible,
responsive manner. Outstanding contribution is recognised through annual Exceptional Performance
Awards.

Academic progression runs annually, for all academic staff, in line with our single academic
framework. A Professorial Conferment Committee, including DVCs, PVCs and external advisers
considers professorial applications.

Our People Gateway gives access to policies which support staff. For example: Location
Independent Working, Career Break and Maternity, Paternity and Adoption. Our focus on creating
connected communities of researchers is also reflected in, and enhanced by, our flexible working
policy which enables staff to be part of our environment.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The investment in the establishment of our centres, over the period, was significant (£37.5M). This
phase initiated a long-term strategy underpinned by continued financial support to ensure our
facilities evolve to meet demands and priorities. Governors approved a strategic Research
Excellence Programme (2019) of £10M investment in centres, including a £200k investment (per
annum) in additional journal subscriptions. A further £8M (2020/21) will sustain quality growth across
our research base.

All centres have benefited from investment to provide dedicated spaces that encourage creativity in
a vibrant research environment which is attractive to talent and nurtures high-quality research. All
centres are separate from Coventry’s main teaching facilities, giving researchers access to state-of-
the-art facilities and equipment in wholly dedicated research environments. This enables networking
within and across research groups, discussion and development of ideas and the development of
external networks to ensure our challenge-led approach to research is developed with our industry
and academic partners as evidence with co-location of partners (Section 2).

The growth of, and investment in, our research base has enabled us to successfully attract significant
Global Challenges Research Funding (GCRF) with awards in the last two years being £1.7M
(2018/19-2019/20) and grow our European funding income of £3.5M (24% of portfolio). Our award
value from Europe has increased by 35% from 2016/17-2019/20, bucking the trend of a significant
fall in UK participation in H2020 over the same period.

We have created a bespoke professional services support structure dedicated to, and embedded
within, our research community. Research Services cover funding and development, delivery and

                                                                                             Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
operations, ethics, finance, management information and impact. To maximise the benefits of our
challenge-led research, we have invested in a permanent team of research impact professionals to
build in impact from research idea through to delivery and beyond. These well-resourced services
support the embryonic development of centres and individual research portfolios of researchers at
all career stages. These functions are managed centrally, but staff are embedded in centres and de
facto are part of their community, enabling a responsive service (Table 6). Support given to staff in
relation to EDI is addressed in Section 3.

Table 6: Research administrative support
 Support Area                                                                 Headcount
 Research Funding and Development                                             21
 Research Systems                                                             5
 Research Operations                                                          39
 Research Delivery Support                                                    32
 Research Excellence and Impact                                               9

Additional research specific roles and teams have been established in ITS, MEA and the Library so
that all relevant academic and professional service teams have dedicated staff. For example, MEA
staff are allocated to centres to provide support and leadership in areas such as Digital, Social Media,
Media and Stakeholder Relations, research marketing, communications and events. SIGMA,
Coventry’s Maths and Statistics support service and the Centre for Academic Writing also provide
dedicated resource.

Our ongoing commitment to the sustainability of research is evidenced through our key infrastructure
and collaborative investments in this period of which a selection is outlined here.

 Investment in facilities
 The £59M Alison Gingell building (opened 2017) has laboratories supporting CSELS and CIH.
 This helps drive interdisciplinary research, as well as research-enriched teaching. Over the period,
 we have invested in building satellite research facilities at Ryton Gardens (purchased 2019
 (£2.4M)).
 Investment in collaborations
 AME, shared with Unipart, pioneered a ‘Faculty on the Factory Floor’ delivering world-class
 Manufacturing and Materials Engineering research. This success, following an initial £7.9M
 investment, led to further investment of £6.6M to grow space and equipment. The NTDC is a state-
 of-the-art interdisciplinary centre bringing together designers, human factors specialists,
 psychologists and technologists to develop novel applications for new and existing technologies.
 Investment in infrastructure
 We have made significant investment (over £2M) to ensure researchers have sustained access
 to accounting and research databases, and further investment in virtual reality equipment,
 statistical and GIS software necessary for high-quality research.
 Income-in-kind
 Researchers from FCS have had access to the European Magnetic Field Laboratory in Grenoble.
 The total value to Coventry was £646k between 2014/15 and 2019/20.



                                                                                               Page 15
