Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 1. Context and mission

 The University of Huddersfield (UoH) was designated university status in 1992. It is a member of
 UUK and Yorkshire Universities and a signatory to the UPP Civic University Agreement. UoH is
 a major employer in the Leeds City Region and considered an anchor institution. Regional
 challenges impact on the establishment of private and public sector collaborative research
 initiatives, where GVA per capita falls 10-15% below the national average (excluding London)
 and limits the extent to which organisations are prepared to commit.

 The University’s seven academic schools undertake a broad range of research with particular
 emphasis on STEM, humanities, social sciences, business, art and design. Over the REF
 period, total research spend p/a has more than trebled, reaching £17M in the FY19/20. We have
 a number of well-established REF and RAE assessed research areas, whilst others, including
 drama, law, architecture, sports science and psychology, will make their first submission in 2021.
 Schools are supported by seven support services overseen by the Vice-Chancellor’s Office. 43%
 of our 1922 FTE employed staff are academics, 15% of which are professorial level. All
 academics are expected to be research active and this is reflected in job descriptions and
 workload allocations. By 2025, the end of the current strategy period, all staff are expected to
 publish research of at least 2* quality, building on the previous 2013-2018 strategy, requiring
 staff to publish at, or better than, national level. All academic staff, except a very small number
 on practitioner contracts, are returned to HESA categories of Teaching and Research or
 Research Only. No academic staff are on teaching only contracts.

 In 2019/20, overall student numbers (UG, PGT and PGR) were 14,857 (FTE) of which 16% were
 international and 5% postgraduate researchers. Total turnover in 2019/20 was ~£174M of which
 £18.8M was combined Research (£16.9M) and Enterprise (£1.9M) income.


 Historically, focus has been on teaching quality, with UoH rated Gold in the 2017 TEF, and
 presented with the Advance HE Global Teaching Excellence Award. Our 2008 Strategy shift
 towards research, resulted in an unprecedented increase in research power in the 2014 REF, with
 262 academic staff submitted, representing a 143% increase on 2008 - the third strongest
 performance in the UK.


 REF2021 encompasses two institutional Strategy Map periods. The 2013-18 research aims
 were:

       To strengthen and enhance our research capability
       To contribute to economic, social and cultural development
       To enrich teaching through research and innovation excellence

 Performance targets included: a four-fold increase in research grant and contract income;
 doubling of high-quality outputs and PGR completions, and increasing the professoriate by
 40FTE. Our mature research disciplines in engineering, music, humanities and social sciences
 were major contributors, achieving recognition, e.g. through two Queen’s Anniversary prizes in
 music and rail.



                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The University’s 2025 Vision is to be ‘an inspiring, innovative university of international renown’,
 by becoming research intensive and recognised in world top 300 rankings. Our Institutional
 Strategy is to increase research activity through international and end user partnerships and
 developing the necessary supporting environment for academic staff.


 2. Strategy

 University Research Strategy

 The University Research Strategy sits beneath the overarching institutional Strategy Map. Our
 ambition is to deliver excellent research and impact that contributes to important advances in
 human knowledge and improvements to the global quality of life. The University Research
 Committee, chaired by the PVC R&E reporting to Senate, is responsible for its oversight and
 delivery.
 Our Research Strategy embraces interdisciplinary societal and economic grand challenges
 organised into thematic Areas of Strategic Research Importance (ASRIs). These are defined as
 themes where we evidentially have expertise, critical mass and assets to develop new and
 emerging areas of research (e.g. engineering systems, data science, materials, health and
 wellbeing, productivity, security, sustainable environment and creativity). The ASRI portfolio is
 overseen by the University Research Committee and informs internal resource allocation
 (University Research Fund, URF) and institutional support. Over the REF period, the University
 has invested ~£7.9M URF to support delivery of the Research Strategy.

 The 2013-18 research aims described earlier were all achieved. By 2025, the University aims to
 accelerate this research intensity by increasing its number of international research partnerships,
 the volume and quality of research outputs, citations and research income, and strengthening
 relationships with industry and end users of research. To facilitate this, the University has a
 delivery plan to create a supportive research environment, aspects of which are detailed below:

 Research Integrity

 The University is committed to the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and
 since 2013 has produced annual integrity statements demonstrating institutional compliance with
 principles. The institutional Code of Practice for Research, research ethics and integrity policy
 and annual statements are publicly available on the University website. The annual narrative
 statement is approved by University Research Committee, reporting to Senate and University
 Council. The current action plan responds directly to the revised 2019 Concordat. Our Code of
 Practice for Research is adapted from the UK Research Integrity Office’s Code of Practice for
 Research and supports researchers in conducting research of the highest quality. The Code
 provides general principles and standards for good practice in research, including excellence,
 honesty, integrity, co-operation, accountability, safety, training and skills.

 All academic schools have designated Research Integrity Champions and Research Ethics and
 Integrity Committees operating within the University Research Integrity framework. School
 research ethics, integrity activities and associated action plans are reviewed annually by URC.
 Governance web pages provide key information and access to training for staff and students.
 The University recognises the importance of training to raise awareness and enable cross-UoA



                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 discussion. All UoAs and Central Service Staff have attended 1-day workshops and on-line
 research integrity Epigeum training packages are available to all staff and students.

 The University of Huddersfield Press is committed to promoting research and publication
 integrity, as defined in the COPE Code of Practice. The Press ensures that all research outputs
 are thoroughly reviewed by expert reviewers. All of our journals adhere to the COPE guidelines
 for best practice.

 Open Research

 The University is committed to ensuring publicly funded research is openly accessible,
 transparent, collaborative and efficient. We have invested in access to systems to facilitate Open
 Research, including but not limited to the Elsevier PURE management information system and a
 University Data Repository and content management system (Box). All staff are encouraged to
 adopt a unique ORCiD identifier to facilitate sharing and establish transparent and trustworthy
 connections between researchers. Specific Open Research activities are summarised below.

 Open Access (OA) is an institutional priority as set out in the OA Policy. During the REF period,
 an internal OA audit was commissioned to review current OA processes and procedures. As a
 consequence, a central OA Manager was appointed to improve information and assist in the
 delivery of mandatory central training for staff and students and to support the wider open
 research strategy. The Elsevier PURE management information system became the single point
 of truth for all research outputs and for OA compliance checks. UoH participates in the annual
 Open Access Week to raise the profile and importance of OA to staff and students. The UoH
 Press, established in 2007, supports emerging researchers and helps foster research
 communities by providing a platform for developing academic areas. OA publishing is actively
 promoted by UoH Press e.g. Music Beyond Airports, a collection of essays developed from
 papers given at the 2019 Ambient@40 International Conference, has received over 12591
 downloads and 586 eBook views as a result of our utilisation of standardised metadata,
 international indexing platforms and a tailored promotional campaign.

 UoH supports the Concordat’s principles on Open Research Data and broadening opportunities
 for high-quality research findings, to be widely disseminated and freely available. The UoH
 Research Data Management Policy outlines the expectations for fulfilling our commitment to the
 Concordat, including requirements for data curation. Guidance and advice for researchers on
 managing the open access of data, including issues arising from ethics considerations and IP
 rights, is available to staff. A dedicated RDM officer is employed to assist academic staff in
 making data open and accessible. To date, resources have been focused on externally funded
 research projects providing RDM support for grant holders, including data storage and
 publication of DOIs for datasets. Data sets , including the AHRC project ‘Mixing it - Diversity in
 Second World War Britain’ and EUICIT Open Access transcripts, are externally accessible via
 the PURE portal.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 The University recognises the importance of interdisciplinary research from both an innovation
 perspective and individual researcher career development. A number of centrally funded
 initiatives have been implemented to support this, e.g. the University Research Fund (URF) has


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 supported ASRI development and the establishment of interdisciplinary research institutes such
 as the Secure Societies, Materials and Skin Integrity & Infection Prevention institutes. The URF
 has also supported interdisciplinary research projects, identified through challenge ‘sandpits’,
 that focus on the Global Grand Challenges and UK Industry Strategy Challenges – all seven
 academic schools have proactively secured funding for challenge-based projects. Over the REF
 period we have invested ~£3.6M of URF to support interdisciplinary research. Specific initiatives
 include PhD stipends for projects with cross-school supervisory teams. Our EPSRC
 Multidisciplinary Research Equipment grant (EP/T02433X/1) and EPSRC DTP awards
 (EP/N50967X/1, EP/R513234/1) have been strategically invested into multidisciplinary
 materials related research across three academic schools - Computing & Engineering, Applied
 Sciences and Art, Design & Architecture.

 Collaboration

 The University Strategy Map addresses the importance of research collaboration, with specific
 aims to increase partnerships and collaborations with end users of research and international
 partners. By 2025, our target is for 15% of research outputs to be generated in collaboration with
 end users and 60% with international collaborators - current achievement is 5.6% and 45.5%
 respectively. To facilitate collaborative relationships, URF funding (£1.4M) has been invested in
 ECR and academic staff sabbaticals, exchanges and international conference attendance. Our
 QR GCRF funding (£532k) has supported partnerships with Universities and end-users in ODA
 countries and research has been undertaken in countries including Ethiopia, Indonesia, Uganda
 and Jamaica. Our collaborative ODA research was awarded a Newton Prize (2019) and over the
 REF period we have secured 37 EU grants with 349 international collaborators.
 The University has strong national and regional collaborations and is an active partner in
 Yorkshire Universities (YU). As YU partners we have participated in Science and Innovation
 Audits for Medtech and more recently rail. HEIF CCF funding (£5M) was secured for the
 Translate and GrowMedtech schemes and 4 of our academic schools have secured funding. A
 Medtech Leadership Board has been established and MoU signed with partners across the
 region and UoH is an active collaborator and partner. The University has also collaborated in two
 Strength in Places applications (Medtech and advanced manufacturing) with HEI partners and
 end-users.

 Delivering Impact

 The University’s Research Strategy commits to delivering excellent research with impact. This
 commitment is recognised in academic promotion criteria, which evidences the importance of
 enterprise, impact and public engagement. Our aim is to conduct research that delivers direct
 economic and societal benefits to the communities we support, and we are committed to the
 principles of the Concordat for Public Engagement with Research. UoH is a signatory of the UPP
 Civic University Agreement to drive regional and local impact and in 2019 conducted an
 institutional Joseph Rowntree impact assessment and a UNIAC Public Engagement Audit to
 inform development of our Public Impact and Engagement strategy. Research Strategy impact
 aims are:
      To increase our economic impact by becoming a focus for productivity improvement,
          impact and enterprise regionally, nationally and internationally;
      To enhance our societal impact as an anchor and civic university to engage with key
          communities and enhance quality of life, effectiveness of public policy and services and
          the well-being of individuals.

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       To develop impact tracking and evaluation methodologies which can be used to monitor
        long term economic and societal impacts of our research.
       To embed responsible innovation approaches in our research practice from project
        design and execution to delivery, dissemination and ongoing impact monitoring.
       To secure increased external funding for research impact delivery.

 Section 3 outlines our commitment to supporting and enabling researchers to deliver impact
 from their research.

 3. People

 General Strategy and Profile

 On 31st July 2020, total Category A staff numbers were 821.58FTE. Of which, 552.13FTE were
 SRR or IR (a 67.2% staff submission across 18 Units of Assessment); more than double the
 staff submitted to REF2014 (233.7FTE). The tables below show staff percentages by key
 indicators:

  Key Staff Indicator       Percentage of total FTE        Percentage of submitted FTE
  Permanent                         91.5%                            92.4%
  Fixed-term                        8.5%                              7.6%
  Atypical contract                  0%                                0%
  ECR                               4.1%                              5.2%

  Disability Indicator      Percentage of total FTE        Percentage of submitted FTE
  No known disability               89.1%                            89.4%
  Disability declared               4.6%                              3.4%
  Unknown                           6.4%                              7.1%

  Gender Indicator          Percentage of total FTE        Percentage of submitted FTE
  Male                              55.6%                            62.9%
  Female                            44.4%                            37.0%
  Other                              0%                                0%

  Ethnicity Indicator       Percentage of total FTE        Percentage of submitted FTE
  White                             62.9%                            55.8%
  Black                             2.3%                              2.2%
  Chinese                           6.1%                              7.5%
  Asian                             7.7%                              8.6%
  Other/mixed                       17.7%                            22.3%
  Unknown                           3.3%                              3.7%

 Our average institutional mean gender pay gap is 7.22% with a median of 0%.

 Staff greater than or equal to 0.5FTE are expected to hold a PhD and be research active and are
 allocated time to conduct research (20% minimum). Currently, 77% of staff have a PhD with the
 remainder studying or exempt. Academic staff are expected to publish 2* quality research by
 2025 and this is mirrored in the REF Code of Practice for staff selection where SRR staff must


                                                                                          Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 hold a doctoral degree, be undertaking high-quality research of an international standard, and be
 a member of a University Research Centre or Institute.

 Staff Development and Support

 The University received the HR Excellence in Research award in 2011 and has undertaken its 8-
 year review. Biannual reviews evaluate our progress against the Concordat to Support
 Researcher Career Development and the current Action Plan is overseen by the University
 Research Careers Oversight Group – notable commitments and actions include:

           Commitment                                       Actions
  Development of merit-          New merit-based matrix promotion system implemented
  based recruitment, reward,      in 2020, recognising and rewarding research, teaching,
                                  enterprise, impact and public engagement
  recognition and promotion
                                 San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
  criteria                        signed in 2019 and merit-based principles adopted in
                                  recruitment and promotion
  Support mechanisms for         Staff have annual research appraisal and development
  career development of           plans.
  researchers through            Research mentoring scheme has been implemented.
                                 Central training mapped against Vitae Researcher
  mentoring, training and         Development Framework (RDF).
  peer networks                  Networks for staff PGRs and research only staff are
                                  planned.
  Professional development       A CMI Research Leader Development programme
  of staff                        established to embed leadership-knowledge, skills and
                                  behaviours. 152 academic staff have enrolled and 75
                                  have Chartered Management status.
                                 Sabbatical Policy supported by schools and central
                                  funding.
  Flexible working and well-     University Flexible Working Policy and Procedure to
  being                           support personal working needs. Parental, Adoption and
                                  Dependant’s Leave and Sickness Absence policies to
                                  support staff with caring responsibilities and health
                                  issues.
                                 Specialist Occupational Health team supports staff
                                  experiencing ill health - includes our Mental Health First
                                  Aid network and DSE provision.
                                 UoH is accredited by the Workplace Wellbeing Charter
                                  and Silvercloud resources are available to support
                                  wellbeing of staff.


 External surveys (e.g. CROS, PIRLS, and CEDARS), monitor staff satisfaction and inform the
 HR Excellence Action Plan targets e.g. 2019 CROS scores relating to recognition and value
 average 48%, an increase on 2017 (33%) and above national average. Similarly, for induction,
 CROS scores have improved from 54% in 2017 to 73% in 2019. Our 2018 institutional survey of
 PGR and academic staff (50% response) informed the HR Excellence Action Plan.

 We are committed to supporting independent researchers and, where possible, aim to appoint
 staff on indefinite and permanent contracts. We currently have 82 (8.5%) academic staff on fixed
 term contracts and institutional HR redeployment strategies are in place. The University provides


                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 bridge-funding for staff on fixed-term contracts when continuity of service and security of
 employment is necessary.

 Early Career Researchers (ECR)
 5.2% of submitted staff were categorised as ECR - it is believed that this is an under-estimate
 due to voluntary declaration. Initiatives to support ECRs include:
     URF funding to attend international conferences, present research and develop
        international collaborations.
     Exclusive PGR scholarships to facilitate supervision responsibilities and to be part of
        supervisory teams for DTPs.
     URF interdisciplinary challenge funding to promote collaborative working
     Senior staff assigned as research mentors.
     ECR attending key research committees for development purposes.
     Commitment in HR Action Plan to ensure researchers on fixed term contracts allowed a
        minimum of 10 days per year professional development
     Assistance in bid development for ECR fellowships and leadership awards.

 Post Graduate Researcher Development and Support

 The Graduate School was established in 2013 and is governed by Graduate Board, chaired by
 the Dean, which reports to University Research Committee. The importance of the PGR
 community was recognised as a KPI in the University Strategy (2013 – 2018) when we
 successfully increased our PGR community to 1000+ FTEs. Over the REF2021 period, 995
 completions have been recorded and current PGR headcount is 1383.

 PGR scholarships are available through several schemes including: VC’s Fee Waiver
 Scholarship, EPSRC DTP awards (EP/N50967X/1, EP/R513234/1, EP/T51813X/1); EPSRC
 NPIF, Industrial CASE studentships, Leverhulme DTC, AHRC Heritage Consortium CDT,
 University Alliance DTAs in Applied Biosciences for Healthcare, Social Policy and an associated
 EU COFUND scheme. Internal QR and URF funding has been allocated strategically to support
 bursaries in priority research areas URF funding (£380k) has supported 19 student transitions
 from Masters to PhD.

 Student Engagement and Training

 UoH is a member of the UK Council for Graduate Education. We collaborate with external
 partners to provide a wide choice of training for PGR e.g. the North-West and Yorkshire Training
 Group, the University Alliance DTA programme, the NPL Postgraduate Institute and the Network
 of Expert Researcher Developers. PGR student enrichment is supported by our investment in
 international conference attendance, development of PGR concepts and ideas, and
 provision for an annual PGR Conference. A PGR Careers Officer also mentors students with
 career choices.

 PGR feedback and consultation is managed through Graduate Council which meets six times a
 year. Our Researcher Environment Team coordinates PGR induction and training requirements
 and coordinates PRES surveys. All PGR courses are mapped to the Vitae RDF and designed to
 support students through their entire research journey. In addition, RDF has been used in PGR
 supervisor training to increase awareness of it - one third of those eligible to supervise in 2017-
 2019 received training.


                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Equality and Diversity (EDI)

 The University Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Enhancement Committee reports to Senate and
 oversees the implementation of University EDI related policies, Code of Practice and
 frameworks for staff and students. In 2020, the University signed up to the Race Equality Charter
 (REC) and completed the Investing in Ethnicity Maturity Matrix to inform the REC action plan. In
 2018, UoH was accredited as a Disability Confident Employer and was a signatory to the Mindful
 Employer Charter, it is also a Stonewall Champion and participated in the Stonewall Equality
 Index in 2019. The University has four staff networks (LGBTQI+, BAME, Women and Disability)
 run by members with support from the University EDI Officer.

 In 2015, UoH was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze and this has been renewed. Schools with
 Athena SWAN awards are Applied Sciences (Silver), Music Humanities and Media (Bronze) and
 Huddersfield Business School (Bronze). In 2017, at the AS conference ‘Equality: Everyone’s job,
 no-one’s responsibility’, Prof. Dame Julia King DBE FREng was keynote speaker. Female staff
 are encouraged to participate in the Advance HE Aurora programme and some staff act as
 Aurora role models.

 The University participates in Vitae’s ‘Every Researcher Counts’ to improve equality and
 diversity for researchers and our Head of Researcher Environment participates in national
 equality and diversity networks. EDI is integral to our commitment to the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers and our HR Excellence in Research Action Plan e.g. an
 EDI review of central research committees (see gender table below), and anonymous sift
 exercises of grant applications to ensure quality-based selection without bias.

                      Committee                 Total        Percentage Percentage
                                               members          Male     Female
                University Research              22             59%        41%
                     Committee
                  Graduate Board                   26            35%           65%
             University Research Group             11            64%           36%
            University Research Careers            14            50%           50%
                  Oversight Group
               University Knowledge                20            55%           45%
                 Exchange Group

 EDI is a priority within our REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP). In January 2019, an equality
 analysis was carried out for SRR and IR identification and output selection processes. Appendix
 16A of the CoP contains the outcomes which led to the inclusion the University’s on-line
 ‘unconscious bias’ and ‘diversity in the workplace’ modules as mandatory training for all staff
 involved in decision making, in addition to bespoke mandatory EDI REF training. An Equality
 Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out in May 2019, testing SRR/IR identification processes
 and provided confidence that the processes were fair. This EIA report is in Appendix 16B of the
 CoP. No subsequent changes were made to the criteria for SRR/IR. This exercise was repeated
 prior to submission to evaluate the efficacy of the process for final identification of SRR/IR staff
 and the output pool.




                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income generation strategy and support

 Total research income for 2019-20 was £16.9M, representing a >3-fold increase since 2014, can
 be broken down as follows:

                            Funder                           Percentage
                            UK Government and NHS            35.8%
                            UKRI and NIHR                    24.6%
                            IUK and Industry                 21.7%
                            EU                               10.4%
                            Charity                          5.6%
                            Overseas and Other               1.0%
                            Local Government                 0.8%

 The distribution of income sources reflects the University strategy to conduct collaborative
 research with end-users. For example, ~60% of income falls within this category (IUK, Industry,
 UK Government and NHS).

 We plan to continue to focus on collaborative end-user R&D and secure funding for impact
 delivery (e.g. Impact Acceleration Accounts). Enterprise income, from sources such as ERDF,
 remains a priority to facilitate impact. We will target initiatives to support our growing population
 of ECRs and seek alternatives to EU funding (~10% income).

 Internal funding will support new partnerships and facilitate impact with end users. Over the
 period we allocated >£1M/annum URF to support our ASRI portfolio, capability growth,
 internationalisation programme and as match funding for external grants. We expect this level of
 commitment to continue. A Strategic Partnership Fund to facilitate relationships with external
 organisations has been created where UoH and external partners fund research programmes
 equally. Key partners include: RSSB, Paxman Coolers, Renishaw and YES Tequila.

 A portfolio of schemes, infrastructure and resources exist to support development of grant
 applications, impact delivery and establishment of collaborative partnerships.

 Infrastructure, resources and facilities

 To support staff developing grant applications, we have a central pre-award team with Research
 Development Managers (RDMs) assigned to schools. A central post-award finance and
 contracts team assist in the management of successful awards. RDMs delivered challenge-type
 sand pit events to facilitate pan-institutional interdisciplinary collaborations and funding used to
 pump-prime research proposals. Some have secured external grant funding e.g. AHRC Life-
 Saving Lullabies project working with women in Zambia. Since 2016 the University has received
 EPSRC DTP and NPIF funding (EP/N50967X/1, EP/R513234/1, EP/R51228X/1, EP/S515425/1)
 and the central Research & Enterprise directorate oversees the management of these including
 strategy development and grant reporting.

 Investment in University estate and facilities has significantly enhanced the research
 environment. For example, in 2017, the Oastler Building (£27M) was constructed for the School

                                                                                                 Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of Music, Humanities and Media and in 2019 the Barbara Hepworth Building (£30M) for Art,
 Design and Architecture. As well as research facilities, buildings house dedicated PGR study
 areas and PGR admin staff offices. Dedicated research facilities, such as a full-scale test rig for
 the Rail Research Institute and the EPSRC MIAMI Ion Beam Facility have been constructed.
 Other major facilities include the Spatial and Interactive Research Laboratory (SPIRAL) including
 recording studios and the Phipps Concert Hall and the Centre for Precision Technology (CPT)
 which is home to the EPSRC Future Advanced Metrology Hub (EP/P006930/1). Additional
 equipment, purchased via an EPSRC Multidisciplinary Research Equipment Investment grant
 (EP/T02433X/1), supports staff across two schools. To showcase facilities and to access a wider
 portfolio of equipment elsewhere, we use the National Centre for Universities and Business
 Confer system.

 Other buildings, including the Holocaust Exhibition and Learning Centre, Sovereign Design
 House Art Gallery and the 3M Buckley Innovation Centre (3M BIC), have been opened to
 facilitate impact from research. The 3M BIC has been recognised in national reviews including
 Lord Young’s 2014 report ‘Enterprise for All’ and the 2017 BEIS Industrial Strategy Made
 Smarter report. The HLF funded Heritage Quay archive facility (opened 2014) houses collections
 encompassing: British music 19th-21st century, sport, education, politics, art and design, theatre
 and literature.

 We have invested in computer systems to support research including; the Elsevier PURE
 Research Management Information System, Skills Forge for PGR training and supervision
 monitoring and Microsoft Dynamics for tracking collaborative R&D and enterprise activities. In
 addition, researchers are allocated Box Data Storage system licences.

 Reproducibility of research is generally addressed through internal peer review of all research
 outputs ahead of publication. In one specific area, the CPT and EPSRC Future Advanced
 Metrology Hub, reproducibility of research is critical for the development of national ISO
 standards. The National Physical Laboratory (NPL) is a strategic partner and PGR students
 developing new physical metrology and machine tool ISO standards are co-supervised by NPL
 staff.

 Benefits In-kind

 The School of Computing and Engineering has benefited from equipment donations that
 significantly contribute to the research environment, e.g. the STFC Medium Energy Ion Source
 (MEIS) which was rebuilt and became operational in 2015. MEIS forms part of the UK National
 Ion Beam Centre, funded by EPSRC, along with the MIAMI facility. Siemens also donated an
 ONIAC tandem particle accelerator to the ion beam centre at Huddersfield.

 In the areas of engineering and innovation, strategic partner Renishaw, provided significant
 discount on a metal 3D printing AM facility dedicated for research and has installed, free of
 charge, metrology software for in-process measurement.

 Academic researchers in Applied Sciences have accessed national HPC facilities such as
 HECToR and ARCHER for computational chemistry simulations and NERC research ships for
 the study of Arctic climate systems. Social scientists share their research using the UK Data
 Service.


                                                                                            Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Impact Support

 UoH is committed to the principles of the Concordat for Public Engagement with Research and
 delivering impact from its research. In 2019, we signed the Civic University Agreement
 recognising our role as an anchor institution and conducted a Joseph Rowntree Foundation
 impact assessment to better understand the overall impact of the institution. The University
 Knowledge Exchange Group, reporting to URC, was established to oversee areas such as
 business and public engagement and IP commercialisation. Given the breadth of research
 across our UoAs, impact extends across economic, social and academic boundaries and
 substantial infrastructure has been established to support our staff and PGR.

 Impact infrastructure:

 Central staff supporting aspects of the impact agenda include:

       an Impact Manager advising academic researchers and school-based officers on delivery
        and monitoring of impact from research as well as impact training for staff.
       the Head of Business Development (HoBD) advising on IP protection and
        commercialisation. The HoBD also supports researchers securing funding from regional
        Medtech HEIF CCF schemes.
       the Head of Regional Business Engagement facilitates interaction with local businesses
        through ESIF programmes e.g. Manufacturing Supply Chain Programme (£5.4M)
        supporting 550 businesses.
       A dedicated KTP manager supports academic engagement with the IUK programme. In
        May 2020, UoH had 13 active KTPs across 4 academic schools.
       A part-time Public Engagement Officer leads the Public Impact and Engagement
        network. Events enable academics to share best practice in impact through public
        engagement.

 Central funding (URF, QR GCRF, QR SPF and HEIF) supports our research impact related
 activities. For example, in collaboration with the University of Leeds, an independent Science &
 Innovation Audit in rail was commissioned to evaluate the opportunities for connecting our
 collaborative rail research capabilities with northern rail innovation systems. In addition, over the
 last three years, ~£400k Follow-On and Impact funding has been secured, primarily from AHRC,
 for projects such as Gerhard Revealed (£80k) and the EU for Researchers Night (£146k).

 The University’s 3M Buckley Innovation Centre is a major route to impact for several academic
 schools. A spin-in model for co-location of businesses alongside UoH is adopted to facilitate
 collaborative R&D e.g. NPL is an anchor tenant. The University showcases research strengths
 to local companies and provides access to state-of-the art equipment such as metal 3D printing,
 HPC, X-ray CT and imaging facilities. Equipment in the centre has been funded via a UoH Local
 Growth Fund capital grant (£2.9M).

 Staff and PGR impact training

 Impact training sessions have been delivered by external providers including Fast Track Impact,
 Vertigo Ventures, Bulletin Academic, Walcott Communications, NCCPE and Parliament
 Outreach & Engagement Services. Training has encompassed topics such as individual impact
 mapping, writing for impact, articulating impact, REF ICS development and delivering research
 impact into policy. Training has been tailored to all stages of research career development, e.g.

                                                                                               Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 ECRs were centrally supported to participate in the NCCPE Researchers Academy. More than
 200 staff have undertaken impact related training. Our PGR students receive training from the
 Director of Research & Enterprise and online resources are available on Brightspace. During
 the REF period, 10 PGR sessions have been delivered and 122 students have attended.

 External promotion and events

 The University website and social media platforms (@HudReseach Twitter has 2794 followers)
 regularly report research news stories and our dedicated PURE web portal enables promotion of
 research activities. The UoH Discover Magazine showcases the diverse range of research
 carried out and highlights economic and societal impact - 17 issues of Discover have been
 published during the REF period, showcasing 119 projects. In addition, to promote our research
 more widely, we subscribe to The Conversation magazine and 253 articles, written by 147
 academics, have been published.

 Events, workshops and networks are key vehicles for engaging with end users to facilitate
 impact of research. For example, the EU H2020 Researchers Night event ‘Full STEAM Ahead’
 ran in 2016 and 2017. Events showcased UoH interdisciplinary research and >3000 members of
 the pubic visited on each occasion. To drive policy related impact of research, UoH has recently
 become a member of the Universities Policy Engagement Network and is seeking to drive such
 activity in partnership with Yorkshire Universities and West Yorkshire Combined Authority.




                                                                                          Page 12
