Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: BRUNEL UNIVERSITY LONDON



 1. Context and mission

 Founded by Royal Charter in 1966, Brunel University London was established to tackle problems that
 were fundamental to the development of future economically important technologies, and to more
 immediate industrial needs. That core motivation remains to this day, and Brunel Vision 2030
 reaffirms our focus on areas in which we can integrate academic rigour with the needs of
 government, industry and the not-for-profit sector, delivering creative solutions to global challenges
 and bringing economic, social and cultural benefit.

 The institution took an inclusive approach to both RAE2008 and REF2014, submitting around 90% of
 eligible staff to both exercises. Our increasing research strength resulted in substantial improvements
 in outcomes, and saw our Research England QR income rise by 50%, so that we now receive the
 33rd largest share of that funding.

 Brunel is a broad-based multi-faculty institution. Our submission draws together the academic work
 of 659 staff across 16 units of assessment. Their work is highly cited, for instance Brunel publications
 from 2014 on the Web of Science have an average of 21.3 citations, evidencing our intellectual
 leadership across a range of disciplines. Since 2014, we have won £195.3M of research grant
 income, graduated 1263 PGR students and been involved in five new doctoral training centres. We
 have held the 33rd largest funding portfolio from the EPSRC, the 13th largest from Innovate UK and
 the 32nd largest share of UK institutions’ funding from the EU.

 Since 2014 the individual achievements of some of our professorial staff have been nationally
 recognised; John Sumpter was awarded the OBE for research on ecotoxicology in the aquatic
 environment; Valsa Koshy an MBE for research on raising educational aspirations; and Bernardine
 Evaristo won the Booker Prize and was awarded an OBE. In addition, three staff have been made
 Fellows of The Royal Academy of Engineering.

 Brunel’s knowledge exchange activities, including contract research, CPD, consultancy and business
 support and innovation programmes are supported by £5.8M of external investment annually. Our
 collaborative research income increased by 31% between 2013/14 and 2018/19. Our income from
 SMEs is, notably, the second highest of any university in London and we have the largest income
 from Innovate UK in our KEF peer group. Brunel is one of only five universities (Brunel, Cambridge,
 King’s College, Manchester and UCL) to have won Research England’s UKRPIF funding for three or
 more major capital research projects with industry.

 Brunel’s disciplinary-based research is organised in research centres and departments in three multi-
 disciplinary colleges; Business, Arts and Social Sciences; Engineering, Design and Physical
 Sciences; and Health and Life Sciences. The latter College was renamed as Health, Medicine and
 Life Sciences in August 2020 in preparation for the launch of the Brunel Medical School. In addition,
 we have one large independent research centre, the Brunel Centre for Advanced Solidification
 Technology (BCAST).

 Our challenge-led research is organised into four Research Institutes; Digital Futures; Energy
 Futures; Environment, Health and Societies; and Materials and Manufacturing. These bring 67% of




                                                                                                   Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 the faculty together from across the University to address research questions aligned with the UN
 sustainable development goals, the UK industrial strategy or the needs of the local community.

 Brunel has a vibrant, rich and dynamic academic community drawn from all parts of the world, as well
 as processes and a culture that drive widening participation and promote equality of opportunity. 45%
 of academic staff have a non-UK background, 63% of our UK PGR students have BAME ethnicity
 and 78% of our home/EU students are in one or more groups under-represented in HE. This unique
 community and culture informs many aspects of research strategy, including, for instance, our
 approach to social sciences research, the implementation of our GCRF strategy and the way we
 work with partners to maximise the impact of our research on the local and regional economy and
 communities.



 2. Strategy

 Following the creation of the Research Institutes in 2014 the University reviewed its Research
 Strategy in 2018/19. We gathered input from over 1,000 staff and students and looked at all aspects
 of the research life-cycle including structures, support systems, and processes and procedures to
 ensure a sustainable research environment. The resulting Brunel 2030 Research Strategy reiterates
 our commitment to challenge-led inter-disciplinary research in key areas of strength supported by
 strong disciplinary research centres within our Colleges. It led to the launch of a fourth Institute,
 Digital Futures, in 2020 to integrate and strengthen the research on digital technologies taking place
 across the institution, complementing the work of the three Institutes established in 2014.

 Over the next five years the strategy will drive the implementation of activities to improve support to
 researchers, particularly ECRs and PGR students, strengthen and expand our research infrastructure
 and our internal peer review system, ensure that research underpins all academic activities and to
 develop our research communication strategy. Fundamental to the delivery of our strategy is the firm
 commitment to principles of equality, diversity and inclusion and to the highest levels of research
 integrity guided by the principles of open science.

 Our knowledge exchange strategy is to build our KE capacity and culture, unblock barriers to
 effective engagement and collaboration and develop our two major KE initiatives in metal casting and
 processing and structural integrity.

 In order to develop our KE capacity and culture our support for consultancy, business development,
 commercialisation and student entrepreneurship has been reinforced. The scale and ambition of our
 outreach activities has been expanded, with a dedicated Public Engagement Ambassador, a
 programme of educational and cultural activities, a new STEM Outreach Lab and an established
 Artist in Residence scheme which has just recruited its third artist. Many staff engage in the public
 communication of our research at a local, national and international level and the University funds a
 number of public engagement programmes to catalyse activities with specific research groups or to
 target particular audiences. The University has over 200 articles on The Conversation, that have
 attracted 2.5M readers. To further support policy research taking place across the institution we
 have initiated a series of policy briefs, joined the Civil Service Open Innovation Team and launched
 the Brunel Policy Unit to provide policy engagement expertise and skills to increase the use of our
 research by policymakers.

 To overcome the barriers to engagement and collaboration with industry we support mobility and
 exchange of people through staff KT leave and secondments and a PGR internship scheme. Since

                                                                                                 Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2014, 17 faculty members have carried out secondments in a range of businesses including Jaguar
 Land Rover, Ford and Sellafield Ltd. To engage with “hard to reach” organisations we introduced
 Innovation Vouchers to allow SMEs to work with our researchers. Since 2017 36 Vouchers worth
 £177k have been used to support projects including the design of a hand-held device for electronic
 document reading for visually impaired people and the development of apps for Post-Operative
 Patient Interaction.

 Our first major KE initiative is the Advanced Metals Casting Centre, which is based in BCAST, a
 national facility for advanced light metals casting is being created to support light-weighting
 applications in the automotive and other advanced engineering sectors. This project has made
 important progress in the last few years. In June 2018, Constellium, a global supplier of aluminium
 products, established an R&D Centre at Brunel, in 2019 we secured a further UKRPIF award for a
 scale-up facility and we recently won an EPSRC Productivity Partnership to develop a new range of
 fully recyclable ultra-high strength aluminium alloys for the automotive industry.

 Our second major initiative is the National Structural Integrity Research Centre (NSIRC), a national
 facility for postgraduate research in structural integrity for the energy and transport sectors, where
 Brunel is the lead academic partner. In collaboration with TWI, BP and Lloyd’s Register Foundation,
 NSIRC has graduated 56 PGR students, completed over 50 collaborative industrial research projects
 and secured £26.3M co-investment.

 We have established a process to support the translation of our research outcomes into benefits for
 society through IP licensing and occasionally spin-outs. We maintain a pipeline of around 30
 commercialisation projects, with typically 20 new disclosures a year, from which we have generated
 13 active licences and launched 4 Brunel spin-outs supported by £1.2M of external commercial
 income.

 Brunel has a strong record of global challenges research, with over 50 ODA-compliant research
 projects completed since 2016. Our approach is to address these global challenges through locally
 owned and created solutions. Our GCRF strategy is to build our capacity to address developing world
 problems, to develop research networks and partnerships and to accelerate the impact of Brunel’s
 research in developing countries. To realise the strategy we recruited four Global Challenges
 Research Fellows who are engaged in high-quality ODA-compliant research activity, leading
 research projects and initiatives, contributing to raising the profile of global challenges research, and
 building our portfolio of research activity that addresses development challenges through
 collaboration with colleagues and international partners. We are building our research networks and
 partnerships through high level visits to carefully selected strategic partners, run a lively GCRF
 Visiting Expert Seminar Series and provide flexible funding for KE that supports GCRF research. This
 approach has brought considerable success; we won the inaugural Newton Prize in 2017 (for
 excellent research and innovation that promotes economic development and social welfare in
 developing countries) and have subsequently been long-listed twice.

 Much of our research is performed with international partners and 55% of our research outputs have
 an international co-author. The University’s international partnerships strategy supports the
 development of high-quality research, and has underpinned the development of a strong strategic
 partnership with Tampere University, Finland. This relationship has been enhanced by an I3 award of
 £350k from Research England to accelerate the scaling up of the partnership over the next five years
 by developing areas where we have complementary expertise, driven by a strong alignment to
 regional strategies and imperatives. The University is an active member of the Young European
 Research Universities Network, and their Mobility Fund allows junior staff to work with one of the

                                                                                                   Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 16 other member universities. The University also has a strategic partnership with FAPESP that has
 supported 5 research projects led by researchers at Brunel and collaborators in universities in Sao
 Paulo.

 Research ethics is overseen by the University Research Ethics Committee, which has an
 independent chair and external representation, and reports to both Senate and Council. In 2015 the
 University moved to an online research ethics approval system BREO (Brunel Research Ethics On-
 line). All research ethics applications are managed through BREO and this has improved compliance,
 transparency and scrutiny as well as provided more robust management information. In 2017 the
 University produced a new Research Integrity Code of Practice which incorporates many policies
 including the Procedure for the Investigation of Research Misconduct.

 Brunel has invested heavily in its research information management systems and is an open access
 and open data sector leader. The Brunel University Research Archive, BURA, was established in
 2006 and contains over 20,000 full text articles. Brunel is 43rd in the world for the proportion of
 outputs in open access and 12th in the UK for gold open access (Leiden CWTS 2020). Our Open
 Access Policy requires that, subject to publishers’ copyright permissions, all new research
 publications and all PhD theses should be deposited on BURA. Brunel has recently initiated a project
 to support the publication of open monographs.

 To further facilitate and support open science, Brunel has developed a fully integrated Current
 Research Information System (CRIS) which allows the direct uploading of full text publications from
 its research database. Funds are available from a central budget for gold open access and 90% of
 staff have an ORCID identifier to facilitate open access processes.

 Brunel has also invested in a Research Data Repository and Data Registry using Figshare. This
 is supported by training and on-line guides for staff and students about how to select and prepare
 data for publication. To date 230 datasets have been deposited and made fully accessible and
 discoverable.

 Brunel recognises that a cornerstone to research integrity is adherence to the principles of open
 science and responsible research assessment. The University was one of the first UK universities to
 sign DORA, and supports the work of the ‘UK Forum for Responsible Research Metrics’. Internal
 monitoring and measurement of research performance is aligned to recommendations produced by
 the Responsible Metrics Forum and applied sensitively taking account of disciplinary norms, staff
 circumstances and the individuals’ protected characteristics. The use of journal rankings or impact
 factors in the assessment of research quality is not allowed.

 Inter-disciplinary research is facilitated through the four Research Institutes that bring colleagues
 together from across the institution to work on challenge led projects. Outcomes of the inter-
 disciplinary projects are disseminated through an Institutes Annual Conference, occasional formal
 reports and through the website and social media. The work of each institute is overseen by a senior
 member of the professoriate as Director, supported by a dedicated team and co-ordinated by the
 Inter-disciplinary Research Board. In the last few years 70-80% of our grant income is associated
 with the work of the Institutes.

 Brunel recognises the importance of capturing and reporting on the impact of its research. Our
 impact is captured and monitored using an online platform, Impact Tracker, allowing reporting on
 institutional impact in real time. Every funded project is by default logged into the Tracker so that from
 the outset, all data including dissemination events and evidence are stored in one place. Unfunded


                                                                                                    Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 projects are added to the Tracker in an annual data collection exercise. Currently the system has
 over 200 projects where impact is being recorded. In addition, Altmetric is used to track references to
 our researchers’ online articles in public policy documents, news and social media.

 The application process for all internal funding schemes, academic promotions and sabbaticals
 include the impact of research in their assessment criteria. By regularly reporting on and evaluating
 impact at both project and institutional levels, the university optimises the reach and significance of
 its research and ensures alignment with strategic priorities.



 3. People

 Staff

 The University staffing policy promotes world-leading research and sustains a vibrant academic
 environment, including with a sustainable ratio of early-career to mid-career and senior academic
 staff. Close to a quarter of staff are under 40 ensuring a healthy pipeline of talented ECRs. Two
 thirds of the faculty are equally split between the 40-49 & 50-59 age groups progressing through mid
 to senior stages of their careers. The remainder 14% are over 60, of which 2% are over 70, ensuring,
 in line with legislation, that staff feel empowered to continue contributing beyond state pension age.
 Significant emphasis is placed on giving staff new to Brunel (ECRs and established) the support to
 ensure that they are able to be productive as soon as possible. This contributes to the sustainability
 and vibrancy of our research environment.

 The University faculty is about the same size as in 2014, with a smaller (20FTE) professoriate and an
 equivalent increase in the number of lecturers and senior lecturers. All new appointments are in
 research areas aligned with an area of our challenge-led research, or a disciplinary centre, or, often,
 both. The University has benefited from the recruitment of a large group of very talented junior staff in
 the last few years and has been working to ensure it has the systems in place to ensure they receive
 the support they need to build successful academic careers.

 Lecturers are now recruited onto a combined probationary and development period and are given a

 reduced teaching and leadership/management load to provide time to establish their research profile
 and build their research activity. On satisfactory completion of the two-year probation period,
 employment as a Lecturer is confirmed. A development period of two years then commences in
 order to support the Lecturer in achieving their targets and demonstrating that they meet the
 standards and requirements of a Senior Lecturer. If the targets and standards have been met and
 sustained staff are promoted automatically to Senior Lecturer. Promotions to Reader and Chair can
 follow with criteria for promotion that include high quality research publications, research grant
 income, knowledge exchange and impact. Brunel operates an annual promotion exercise and
 monitors success rates by gender, ethnicity and age. We run specific workshops to support
 applications from under-represented staff groups.

 In 2015/16 we re-launched our Personal Development Review process with a greater focus on
 research careers and research leadership, and on the diversity of possible contributions to the
 academic mission.

 The University runs a variety of competitive schemes to support different aspects of its research.
 These are open to all staff and structured to facilitate applications from the whole academy,


                                                                                                    Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 irrespective of discipline, research methodology or research topic. The schemes are developmental,
 with support for the preparation of applications and feedback that promotes personal development.
 Regular reviews ensure the schemes are supporting the development of individual staff, improving
 the quality of research in each discipline and operating in line with our commitment to equality and
 diversity.

 The Sabbatical Leave Scheme allows academics to concentrate on a programme of work that will
 lead to identifiable and measurable research outcomes. The best applications are selected each year
 based on the proposed research programme, quality of planning and the work to be done, and the
 potential impact. Since 2014, 89 staff have had leave with a total investment of £800k, and many of
 the research outputs submitted arise from a period of research leave.

 To support junior staff in the first three years of appointment BRIEF awards are made on the basis of
 an externally reviewed application covering questions about the aims, methodology, significance,
 originality and impact of a planned research programme. For many staff, their BRIEF application is
 their first attempt to secure funding in a competitive peer reviewed call. Since 2014 the university has
 given 73 awards to a total value of £852k and many of these projects have led to successful first
 external grant applications.

 To increase the transparency of workload allocation, and hence ensure equality of opportunity, the
 University has introduced a work-load allocation model. This supports appropriate weighting for
 research activities, alongside education, managerial and administrative roles, ensuring that all
 responsibilities are appropriately accounted for and that all staff have equal opportunities to pursue
 their interests.

 The University monitors the data within the model, as well as reports on other research processes, to
 ensure that interests of those with protected characteristics are suitably supported, reporting and
 recommending changes to the Equal Opportunities and Human Resources Committee. In terms of
 gender, in 2019/20 37.3% of the grant applications made by the university were submitted by female
 PIs and 31.9% of the papers produced by the University between 2015 and 2018 were authored by a
 female researcher from Brunel (Leiden CWTS). Since 2014 39% of staff granted sabbatical leave
 and 49% of those winning BRIEF awards were female. Female staff currently make up 37% of the
 staff eligible to apply for these awards.

 Brunel was an early signatory of the Researcher Development Concordat and is taking forward a
 variety of actions impacting on the environment & culture, employment and professional & career
 development of research staff. In 2019 the University implemented a policy to ensure that all
 employees with a series of fixed term contracts totalling 4 years or more continuous service are
 converted to open-ended employment contracts. As a result, over 50 staff have moved from fixed
 term to open-ended contracts. In addition, staff on fixed term contracts who secure an external
 fellowship are automatically offered an open-ended academic contract. The University has held the
 EU HR Excellence in Research Award since 2011. In renewing the award for the second time in
 early 2020 the panel commented “..we were very impressed with Brunel’s activities to support the
 career development of researchers and their actions relating to this award.”

 Brunel is a signatory of the Technician Commitment and is implementing an action plan to promote
 the visibility, recognition and career development of its technical staff. Part of this plan is to raise the
 profile of their contribution to research papers; our technicians were co-authors on 25 papers in the
 last 5 years.



                                                                                                       Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Students

 We celebrate the vital role PGRs play in sustaining research activities and stimulating adventurous
 new ideas. The University has graduated 1263 PhD students since 2014, and we are delighted that
 over 200 are co-authors of papers in our submission. The current PGR student population is 565.
 We receive approximately 11 applications per place. Our strategy is to attract and select PGR
 students with the greatest potential for high quality research, to develop their ability to apply new
 knowledge and their transferable skills and to have confidence in their abilities and achievements.
 We are working to develop more bilateral agreements with companies, research organisations and
 charities to support PGR, and to have more PGRs engage with those organisations, and also to
 enable more PGRs to gain international exposure.

 In 2014 the University introduced stronger processes for the review of PGR students’ progress, and
 changed the way in which students were allowed to continue to work on their PhD beyond the
 standard period of study. This, combined with strengthening of the admissions processes in 2016,
 has substantially improved our PGR completion rates and the academic outcomes.

 The University has diversified the number and type of funding sources for the scholarships it offers,
 and sought to ensure that it was able to participate in more DTPs. Since 2014 the University has
 been a member of five new successful DTP consortia; Techne (AHRC), FoodBioSystems (BBSRC),
 Food Systems (BBSRC), Grand Union (ESRC), and the London NERC.

 The Graduate School is responsible for a range of activities focused on the support and
 development of PGR students and postdoctoral researchers. It also provides learning and
 development ‘spaces’ for researchers that are inter-disciplinary and collaborative. To that end,
 training in the Graduate School is deliberately organised to bring together researchers from across
 the university and complement provision within Departments.

 The Graduate School manages a range of awards designed to support PGR activity. This includes
 organisational and financial support for PGR conferences and a quarterly Vice-Chancellor’s Travel
 Prize. The latter allows students to compete for funding for conference travel of up to £750 per
 award. Since 2014/15, 235 applications have been received for the Prizes, of which 126 were
 awarded. These awards supplement funding available for conference attendance from Colleges and
 external sponsors of PGRs. An annual Conference and 3 Minute Thesis Competition, attracting
 over 100 participants a year, showcases PGR research and improves students’ communication skills.

 The Researcher Development Programme comprises a range of workshops, sessions and
 activities designed to develop researchers broadly within the four domains of the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework – a professional framework defining the skills, knowledge and attributes
 of effective researchers. Workshops are also mapped to the Brunel 3-D Researcher Development
 Tool to enable students to appropriately plan and evidence their activity for progress reviews and
 supervisory conversations. An annual PhD Writing Group provides a multi-disciplinary cohort of
 PGRs with a 12-week programme of support. Th University Careers Service provides specialist
 support for both PhD students and research staff, which remains available for two years after leaving
 the university.

 Since 2015 a group of Brunel researchers have created 40 podcasts, branded as Research Life,
 comprising interviews designed to share research experiences, drawing on the expertise of senior
 staff, which encourage academic interaction and collaboration as well as helping researchers reflect



                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 on different career pathways. Recent topics include wellbeing for researchers, publishing 4-star
 papers and collaboration in research.

 Equality and Diversity

 The University takes a range of measures to support and promote equality and diversity (E&D) in
 research. The University successfully renewed its Athena SWAN Bronze award under the
 expanded Charter in 2017 as well as gaining Bronze awards in seven departments. Our E&D
 Strategy and Action Plan further embeds E&D in our core values and systematically mainstreams
 Athena SWAN principles across Brunel policies and practices.

 Brunel has significantly increased the investment in staff resource for Athena SWAN activities to
 support departmental activities. Since 2014/15 we have also held 6 Athena SWAN Lectures,
 drawing large audiences to hear high profile women in STEM, from both academia and industry, give
 a mix of technical talks and personal reflections on their own careers and experiences. We invested
 £174k in 12 Athena SWAN Research Awards for maternity-leave returners to engage in an
 approved research project.

 To support the development of particular groups of staff we have invested £81k in the Aurora
 programme, which 32 women have completed since 2017, and delivered the Women in Engineering
 PG scholarship scheme, supported by £1.5M from HEFCE. The University operates a mentoring
 scheme for female STEM postgraduates. All these initiatives strengthen the pipeline of women
 entering academia in disciplines where women are under-represented. 20 women have completed
 SPRINT, an international development programme for female researchers. Many maintained peer
 support groups beyond the events and played an active role in recruiting other Brunel researchers to
 the programme. Over 20 BAME members of staff have participated in Advance HE’s Diversifying
 Leadership programme.

 The University currently holds the University Disability Standards Award (2015) and was awarded
 the Two Ticks Symbol in 2015 for its Positive about Disabled people commitments as an employer.
 The University has received a Disability-smart award and Disability Confident Gold award from the
 Department of Work and Pensions, only the fourth university to hold this award. The University
 supports six Staff Network Groups (Access & Disability, Carers, Ethnic Minority, Harassment &
 Bullying, LGBT+ and Women) that bring like-minded staff members together to discuss important
 equality issues affecting staff in the workplace and then feed into the University’s E&D agenda.

 Brunel, as a research-intensive university, is submitting 100% of all eligible academic staff. We
 followed the processes in our Code of Practice for the fair and transparent identification of
 independent researchers and to ensure that the submitted outputs provided a balanced and unbiased
 representation of the work of our diverse academic community, their characteristics and contractual
 positions (age, disability, race, sex, part-time and fixed-term employees). Output selection was
 monitored through regular Equality Impact Assessments.

 Our outputs well represent the diversity of our staff. Female staff make up 37% of our submission
 and contributed 36% of the outputs, BAME staff make up 32% of the submission with 32% of the
 outputs and 1% of staff with a declared disability also contributed the same percentage of the
 outputs. Of the staff submitted 22% were aged 30-39, 32% 40-49, 31% 50-59 and 14% 60 or more.
 The percentage of outputs submitted for each of these age cohorts was within 2% of these values.
 We claimed discounts in two UoAs.



                                                                                                    Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since 2014 Brunel has raised £195.3M of external research income in 1124 grants, with 38% coming
 from UK research councils, 23% from the EC, 19% from Innovate UK and 7% from UK industry.
 Brunel has done considerable work to improve and strengthen its internal peer review processes to
 ensure that grants submitted by the institution are as competitive as possible. As a result, our
 success rates with the research councils have risen. We have also sought to increase the fraction of
 staff winning grants, using the BRIEF awards, mentoring and the personal development review
 process to help staff build strong proposals. The Research Institutes have provided opportunities for
 many staff to get involved with larger multi-disciplinary projects for the first time. We have also
 focussed on increasing the number of fellowships won by the institution, through a fellowship panel
 and mentoring process. This has seen us secure three ERC fellowships, our first UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellow, a Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship, two UUKi Rutherford Fellowships, two
 Wellcome Trust Fellowships, a Marie Curie Fellowship and five Leverhulme Trust Fellowships.

 The Research Support & Development Office (RSDO), with 24 staff, supports research
 development at both pre- and post-award stage and the internal peer review system. They support
 business development that builds partnerships with industry, the commercialisation and exploitation
 of research outcomes and the development of impact. Business development managers are aligned
 to areas where our research activities meet industrial need (Creative Industries, Digital, Energy,
 Healthcare and Manufacturing). To catalyse new GCRF activities RSDO co-ordinates a special
 interest group on Africa that brings together colleagues conducting African research to share
 experience, networks and knowledge.

 A Research Development Fund meets the costs of developing major proposals with large numbers
 of collaborators. Since 2014 £279k has been used to support the development of 115 proposals.
 The University also provides funds for research groups to run seminar series. This is awarded on the
 basis of applications, to supplement funds provided by Colleges and Institutes to support such
 activities.

 The University Information Services department maintains the CRIS system with an archive fully
 linked to a publications database and a data repository. The Scholarly Communications department
 operates these systems and supports researchers with issues associated with open science
 publication, copyright and the payment of author pages charges. We use a single on-line system for
 research ethics processes and reporting and Impact Tracker is used to capture the benefits of our
 research.

 Brunel’s computer system is internally networked at 10GB/s and connected to JANET at 40GB/s. We
 have strong performance and data storage capabilities; our tier 2 currently has 4500CPU cores and
 2PByte of on-line storage. Brunel’s researchers also benefit from an excellent centrally located
 campus library with an extensive range of research material combined with access to specialist on-
 line research resources.

 The University has invested £57M in new research facilities, including scale-up and research facilities
 for light metal casting, equipment for structural integrity research, refurbishment of specialist
 biomedical laboratories and new facilities for research in both civil engineering and the sustainability
 of food supply chains. In addition, several research areas have been provided with new or
 refurbished offices, collaboration and meeting spaces including computer science, design, law and




                                                                                                  Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 mathematics. We use the campus as a research tool, collecting data on building performance and
 installing wind turbines, photo-voltaic cells and biomass facilities.

 We support a number of specialist research facilities that are available to all researchers including
 the Experimental Techniques Centre, that provides materials characterisation facilities, a high
 resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging unit, shared with the Royal Holloway and Surrey,
 biomedical science laboratories and the Antonin Artaud performance space.




                                                                                                Page 10
