Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: King’s College London

      1. Context and mission

King’s is a large, multi-faculty university. Founded in 1829, King’s has made a defining contribution
to knowledge and society for almost 2 centuries, including through 14 Nobel Prize winners. It
employs >11,000 staff and has >45,000 students (of which >12,800 postgraduates), from >150
countries. Our annual income was c.£971m in 2019/20.

We are a research-intensive university, with annual research awards of c.£230m (excluding
Research England QR funding), a member of the Russell Group, and ranked 7th in the UK (9th in
Europe) by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (2021).

1.1     Organisational Structure
King’s is organised into 9 Faculties, all of which deliver the mission of the university across
research, teaching and service. Our research is strongly multidisciplinary and crosses these
structures; this is balanced by Faculties’ constituent Departments, which provide disciplinary
coherence.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
The highly-multidisciplinary nature of our research is illustrated below with examples of cross-
Faculty research centres (also see Section 4.1):




1.2    Research and Teaching Balance
The majority of academic staff undertake research, teaching, and service & administration (normal
split 40%/40%/20%). This drives a culture of research-enhanced learning, and directly benefits our
research through capacity building and a thriving post-graduate research community.

Our submission contains 1884.96FTE: 1829 Category A teaching and research staff, alongside
178 Category A research-focused staff (mainly fellowships). We have 231 staff on the Academic
Education Pathway (not submitted) who also undertake scholarship activities (approximately 20%).




                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
1.3     Local Economic and
Demographic Context
King’s is a Civic University at the heart of
London, one of the world’s most dynamic
and connected cities, placing us at the
centre of national and global networks.
We operate across 5 central London
campuses (3 co-located with major NHS
hospitals), and the UK Defence Academy
site in Wiltshire.

King’s actively engages with our local
communities. Our campuses are
embedded in some of the most ethnically
and economically diverse areas of the UK.
Lambeth and Southwark rank amongst the
15% most deprived local authority areas in
the country, whilst Westminster is one of
the richest (although with pockets of
deprivation). Southwark’s population is
60% Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME),
and Lambeth’s is 46% BAME.

Lambeth and Southwark have the second
and third largest LGBTQI+ communities in
England.




1.4    King’s Mission
Our university strategy Vision 2029 aims to make the world a better place, building on foundations
of: “proud heritage, contemporary outlook”; “of London, for the world”; “interdisciplinary by nature”;
“academia into action”.

We deliver Vision 2029 through five priorities: (1) educating to inspire and improve; (2) developing
research to inform and innovate; (3) serving to shape and transform; (4) embracing our role as a
civic university at the heart of London and (5) an international community that serves the world.

Delivering our vision and strategy is already bearing fruit: King’s ranks 9th worldwide (2nd in the UK)
in the Times Higher Education Impact Rankings (2020), and 4th in the UK in the Times Higher
Education Most International Universities Ranking (2020). King’s won the 2019 Times Higher
Education DataPoints Merit Award for “Gender Equality and Reduced Inequalities”.

1.5    Affiliations and Peer Groupings
King’s is a member of the Russell Group, the Guild of European Research-intensive Universities,
Circle U European University Alliance (alliance of seven European Universities), Uniqua
(association of 49 universities beyond the EU), and the Association of Commonwealth Universities
(chaired by our Principal).

We are the academic lead in King’s Health Partners Academic Health Science Centre (one of 8
UK accredited AHSCs), combining academic and clinical strengths to enhance both research and
clinical outcomes. KHP has c.5 million patient contacts/year, and >600 clinical trials in delivery.
Research collaborations are strengthened through a formalised “Adjunct” academic programme,
which provides full “academic rights” to selected clinicians.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

King’s is a founding partner of the Francis Crick Institute, Europe's largest biomedical research
facility. The Crick’s ambition is to discover the biology underlying human health, improving the
treatment, diagnosis and prevention of human disease, and generating economic opportunities for
the UK. 9 academic staff are based (full/part time) at the Crick, with c.60 staff and c.20 joint PhD
students.

We are a founding partner of the Rosalind Franklin Institute, a national institute dedicated to
bringing about transformative changes in life science through interdisciplinary research and
technology development. We have particular involvement in the Correlated Imaging theme.

In 2018 King’s joined the London Centre for Nanotechnology (joint venture with UCL/Imperial)
aiming to solve global problems in information processing, healthcare, energy and the environment
through the application of nanoscience and nanotechnology.

King’s is a founding partner of the Thomas Young Centre for Theory and Simulation of
Materials (TYC), involving c.100 research groups across London, alongside national/international
partners (including NPL, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Argonne National Laboratory, BP
and Rio Tinto) to address the challenges of society and industry.

King’s has strong international partnerships including the PLuS Alliance (with Arizona State
University and University of New South Wales) and the Dresden TransCampus (with Technische
Universität Dresden), alongside strategic partnerships with University of North Carolina, Universite
de Paris and Humboldt University in the arts, humanities and social sciences.

King’s views London as a living laboratory, and through research collaborations and partnerships
with London's businesses, organisations and agencies we work across disciplines to address
challenges and opportunities. We host MedCity (connecting industry and universities across
London), lead the Research England “Connecting Capabilities” partnership London Advanced
Therapies (includes dedicated funding for SME engagement), and lead the Innovate UK London AI
Centre for Value-Based Healthcare (£40m across 4 universities, 11 NHS Trusts, 6 industry
partners, 11 SMEs). We have close links with key Government departments (Cabinet Office,
FCO, Treasury and MoD), and partnerships with London’s major institutions such as the British
Library, National Archives, Royal Collections Trust, V&A, British Museum, and Shakespeare’s
Globe. National Gallery X, a strategic partnership between the National Gallery, King’s and
Google Arts and Culture, explores the potential of technology in the future of galleries.


 2. Strategy
2.1    Research Strategy
King’s launched its University Research Strategy in December 2016. It aims to enhance research
quality, impact and scale by building on both disciplinary excellence and transformative research
that crosses disciplines and changes paradigms. We have recently updated this strategy to define
priorities for the next 18-24 months, addressing challenges and opportunities created by the
COVID-19 pandemic.

The research strategy is structured around five pillars:

Pillar 1: Retaining, developing and recruiting world-class talent, recognising the central
contribution of our staff to our research mission. University-wide initiatives supporting this include
the Leading Researchers and Emerging Research Leaders programmes and King’s Prize
Fellowships, described in Section 3. Leading Researchers (c.20 staff/year) supports the
development of strategic research leadership skills; outcomes include the ESRC Centre for Society
and Mental Health. Emerging Research Leaders (just launched) offers a similar programme for
early-career academics. The Prize Fellowships support the transition to research independence
(section 3.3). To enhance King’s support for under-represented groups, we will shortly launch
dedicated PhD scholarship and post-doctoral fellowship programmes for black researchers.
                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

Pillar 2: Providing the best environment and systems to deliver world-leading research. This
includes enhancements to core facilities (including eResearch) and dedicated support for research
development, industry engagement and commercialisation. Core facilities are described in Section
4; recent developments include London 7T MRI Clinical Imaging Centre, Advanced Therapies
Centre, Microscopy Innovation Centre, PET Imaging Centre, London AI Centre for Value-Based
Healthcare, and King’s Digital Lab (digital humanities). All have substantial funding from UKRI,
Wellcome and industry, alongside university investment (total c.£110m). The research
development function, established as part of the Strategy, has increased research funding by 45%,
including major strategic awards (>£500m awards supported). Updated actions in this Pillar
include transforming research delivery on-site (post-COVID), and enhancement of eResearch
capabilities.

Pillar 3: Broadening the research base whilst increasing quality. A key focus is enhancing
interdisciplinary research at King’s, including our flagship initiative King’s Together, (Section 4).
This has been highly successful, with >100 projects securing >£30m of external follow-on funding,
including an ESRC Centre and Wellcome/Leverhulme PhD programmes. We created cross-faculty
research institutes, (e.g. Institute for Global Health; AI; Arts and Humanities Research Institute).

Pillar 4: Increasing impact and expanding research partnerships. We have created a new
leadership position, Dean of Research Impact, with Associate Deans in each Faculty, and a cross-
university Impact Committee. We have developed an Impact Strategy and Action Plan, leading to
appointment of a team of Impact Leads and a new Industry Partnerships function. We have
significantly expanded our Commercialisation function. Our impact is enhanced by strong public
and community engagement, including the flagship Science Gallery London, and the Cultural
Arcade which hosts research-related exhibitions. We have developed major new strategic
partnerships with industry and Government, including Siemens, Nvidia, GSK, UCB, Celgene,
Medtronic, IBM, GE and Ericsson (total value of new industry investment c.£65m), and the
Freeman Air & Space Institute (funded by MoD) alongside a close working relationship with the UK
Cyber Security Centre. We work closely with partners in law and business, and the cultural sector,
including British Library, National Archives, British Museum, and the National Gallery. New actions
include establishment of a joint venture with partner NHS Trusts for medtech commercialisation.

Pillar 5: Delivering research-enhanced education, is a shared objective between our Research
and Education Strategies (see section 3). We have expanded our King’s Undergraduate Research
Fellowship scheme (900 projects since 2014, all Faculties), and provide sector-leading support to
our student community through the King’s Entrepreneurship Institute (year-long programme
including expert knowledge, space and access to investment; 81 ventures created, £20m funding
raised, revenue of £17m delivered, +400 new jobs created, 69% of ventures still trading).

2.2      Research Integrity
King’s has upgraded its approach to Research Integrity during the current REF cycle, with updated
procedures, and expanded Research Integrity Team, including a Dean for Research Governance,
Ethics, and Integrity, and Research Integrity Manager (dedicated to research misconduct and
integrity).

We have focused on increasing visibility and awareness of Research Integrity, adopting best-
practice through transparent processes, and support for staff and students:

     A Research Integrity Champion is embedded within every Faculty. This is a high-level
      advocacy role. Research Integrity Advisors are embedded in each faculty to provide a visible
      point of contact for researchers.
     Improved outreach activities and online visibility, including published annual statement and
      provision of a dedicated mailbox for advice.




                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     Updated procedures for investigating and resolving allegations of research misconduct
      (following 2017 update to RCUK/UKRI Policy and Guidelines), and clarified procedure on
      partially-upheld allegations to increase transparency.
     Collaboration with the Centre for Research Staff Development and Centre for Doctoral Studies
      to enhance training.

We are compliant with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity at institution level. We are also
a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment at institution level, and
have an institutional policy on the use of research metrics for research assessment.

2.3      Open Research
King’s has a strong commitment to Open Research, and is a formal member of the UK
Reproducibility Network (see Section 4.6).

Many of our activities – including high-profile, university wide conferences – are led by the King’s
Open Research Group Initiative (KORGI), which brings together academic staff, research staff,
PhD students and professional services. KORGI reports into the University Research Committee.

Open Access is supported by King’s Libraries and Collections, including managing, curating and
disseminating publications and research data, in line with funder and REF OA policy. This includes:
 Data input and quality control of publication metadata and full-text in King’s CRIS and
    repository system, including journals/monographs and grey literature.
 Administration of King’s OA grants to enable publishing in fully open access journals.
 Support with Data Management Plans and options for storage/preservation/dissemination of
    research data.
 Creating a Research Data Management Roadmap and infrastructure.
 Delivering training on Open Access publishing and research data management.
 Founding of the ‘Open Research Group’ – a quarterly meeting of professional services staff
    and faculty reps.

We are working towards compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data.

2.4    Disciplinary Focus, Institutional History and Development, and Relative Maturity of
Disciplines
King’s portfolio includes substantial health/biomedical activity, alongside a rich and diverse
coverage of arts, humanities and social science disciplines. We have a growing presence in
engineering and natural/mathematical sciences.

Founded in 1829, the University rapidly grew during the 1980s and 1990s through mergers with
several health-related institutions: King's College School of Medicine & Dentistry (1983), Chelsea
and Queen Elizabeth Colleges (1985), Institute of Psychiatry (1997), United Medical & Dental
Schools of Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals (1998). Subsequent integration and strategic
alignment led to a substantial increase in the scale and quality of health-related research, across
fundamental and translational science.

Over the last decade, we have grown rapidly in social sciences (now 5 interdisciplinary Schools in
a single Faculty). The department of Management has grown into King’s Business School, an
independent Faculty, and the Law School has grown significantly.

Art & Humanities has also grown substantially, evolving from fifteen constituent departments to
three thematic interdisciplinary clusters, with increased collaboration.

In the last 10 years we have developed a major strategic plan to invest in science and engineering,
with the rebirth of both chemistry and engineering departments, growth in physics and


                                                                                                 Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
mathematics, and substantial growth in computer science. Substantial investment is planned over
the next five years.

 3. People
People are the heart of our institution, and the retention, development and recruitment of staff and
students is central to the delivery of our vision.

3.1 Undergraduate and postgraduate taught research opportunities
Research-enhanced education is prioritised, including final-year research projects in almost all
degrees, research lectures and a research mentoring programme. King’s Undergraduate
Research Fellowships (paid summer studentships) support deeper engagement in research (900
projects since 2014, across all Faculties).

All Masters programs have a major research component. We have an expanding suite of MRes
programmes, with 50% research content.

Our “King’s Together” interdisciplinary research programmes support creation of innovative
interdisciplinary education initiatives (e.g. interdisciplinary module on Revelatory Religious
Experience).

3.2 Training of postgraduate research students
King’s post-graduate research activities are led by the Dean for Doctoral Studies, a new senior
academic position to provide oversight and accountability. The Dean works in partnership with the
Centre for Doctoral Studies, which has responsibility for ensuring high-quality PGR provision
across the university. The Centre has dedicated staff focusing on: (1) provision of support, (2)
funding opportunities, (3) high quality training (personal, professional, academic & career
development) and (4) nurturing an inclusive environment for all research students.

We aim to ensure that all PGR students at King’s receive a high-quality and rounded experience,
and benefit from being part of a wider cohort. We offer tailored training courses and networking
opportunities, covering both subject-specific and “transferable” skills training. We ensure best
practice for student supervision and mentoring, with particular attention to student welfare (and
with specific programmes to support mental health). Equality, Diversity and Inclusion are
integrated into PGR programmes, with respect to both students (inc. selection) and supervisors.

Our Health Sciences Doctoral Training Centre exemplifies this approach. It provides training,
development and careers support for the c.1,800 doctoral research students in our Health
Faculties, ensuring that all students receive an outstanding experience, irrespective of funding
stream.

During the current REF cycle, we have established 9 new Doctoral Training Partnerships (AHRC,
BBSRC, ESRC, EPSRC, MRC, Wellcome, BHF, Leverhulme), enabling development of structured
PhD programmes and reinforcing inter-institutional partnerships. >1,150 PhD students have
benefitted from these fully-funded programmes, which include internships, bespoke training, and
enhanced research and employability skills.

The King’s Cultural Institute offers a Collaborative Scheme for Early Career Researchers,
supporting PhD students and Early Career Researchers to collaborate with a cultural sector,
enhancing research impact. This programme was created in response to PhD student feedback.

3.3 Support for Research Staff
The Centre for Research Staff Development supports research staff (postdocs, research
assistants and technicians) with bespoke training, mentoring and career counselling, and leads our
action plan for renewal of the HR Excellence in Research Award, alongside work on research
culture (including combating bullying and harassment). The Centre focuses on five core themes:


                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   Community: Facilitation and support of an active, engaged research staff community.
   Careers: Including support from a team of qualified careers consultants.
   Courses: Delivering a number of professional workshops and events that enhance researcher
    skills and future opportunities.
   Communications: Information regarding opportunities for research staff within and outside of
    King's.
   Concordat: King’s aims to exceed the standards set by the Concordat to Support the Career
    Development of Researchers.

King’s is addressing the uncertainty that comes from short contracts for research-only staff with
regulations to define the minimum length of contracts and ensuring that staff with multiple renewals
of short-term contracts are moved to open-ended contracts.

King’s Prize Fellowships provide 2 years of funding to support transition to research
independence (particularly by obtaining externally-funded fellowships) (c.30 supported in current
REF cycle; successful outcome c.80%). We have faculty-based schemes to support research-only
staff to move to permanent academic posts and have recently moved to make this a cross-
university initiative.

3.4 Development of academic staff
We offer organisational development programmes to staff at all career stages. This includes the
King’s Leading Researchers Programme to support rising stars (c.25/year), at or around
Professor level, and the recently-launched Emerging Research Leaders Programme for earlier
career stages.

We participate in StellarHE to enhance leadership skills of BAME staff, and Aurora, Advance HE's
leadership development initiative for women and those who identify as a woman. We have a range
of mentoring schemes, including B-Mentor for BAME academics/post-docs, and More than
Mentoring which prioritises women, BAME, LGBTQ+ or staff with a disability.

We have enhanced support for staff with caring responsibilities (including parents returning from
family leave) by providing funding to maintain research progress. The Carers’ Career
Development Fund provides awards up to £250 to cover expenses for conferences and travel and
the Parents’ and Carer’s Fund provides awards of up to £10k to support return to research.

We strongly encourage wide participation of colleagues with protected characteristics in leadership
opportunities across the university. Academic leadership roles within faculties, departments and
schools and at university level are appointed through transparent, competitive processes, with
diverse panels and shortlists.

3.5 Equality and Diversity
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion underpins Vision 2029, with the guiding principle to ‘create an
inclusive environment where all individuals are valued and able to succeed’. ED&I plays a key role
in attracting and retaining talented staff, enabling success.

King’s recognises that feeling part of a community is an integral part of a positive work experience.
Staff networks can have transformative effects on involvement with the organisation, enhancing
wellbeing and enabling participation in decision-making and strategy. King’s has six staff networks:
Elevate (King’s Gender Equality Network), Race Equality Network, Athena SWAN Network, Proudly
King’s (LGBT+ Staff Network), Staff Disability Network & Groups, and Parents & Carers Network.

King’s has been a member of the Athena SWAN Charter since 2007. The Charter now recognises
work undertaken in arts, humanities, social sciences, business and law, in professional and
support roles, and for trans staff and students. Our four Health Faculties all have Silver Awards. All
the departments in our Faculty of Natural, Mathematical and Engineering Sciences have Bronze


                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Awards (Physics have a project Juno Silver). In Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities,
applications are underway. The university as a whole has applied for the Silver Award (pending).

Since 2017, King’s has identified race equality as a strategic priority. We have worked to identify
and reflect on institutional and cultural barriers to black, minority ethnic (BAME) success. Actions
include expansion of Widening Participation programmes, Structural Inequality training for Senior
Management, halving our institutional attainment gap at ‘good’ degree level, development of our
Race Equality Network, and renewal of our Race Equality Charter Mark, committing to deliver our
4-year Race Equality Action Plan. ED&I training is compulsory for all staff.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
King’s research environment is enhanced by a comprehensive range of resources, capabilities and
facilities. These enable cutting-edge research, maximise the translation and impact of our
research, and stimulate collaboration between disciplines.

4.1      Income and Awards
Our new research awards total was £233m in 2018/19 and £223m in 2019/20, representing a 41-
47% increase since 2015/16. In 2019/20, this came from UKRI and UK Government (44%),
charities (26%; particularly Wellcome,/BHF/CRUK), industry (16%) and the EU (11%). Examples
of major awards include:

     AHRC Flagship project in Language Acts and Worldmaking (£3m).
     ESRC Centre for Society & Mental Health (£6.3m).
     Wellcome/EPSRC Centre for Medical Engineering (£12.3m), and The London AI Centre for
      Value Based Healthcare (Innovate UK, £26m through 2 awards).
     4 Research England UKRPIF capital awards (total £51m).
     Two NIHR Biomedical Research Centres (total £130m, awarded to NHS Trusts with King’s as
      sole academic partner).
     NIHR Applied Research Collaboration South London.
     The EPSRC/UKRI UK Hub for Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (£12m; led by Southampton
      with King’s as major partner).
     Global research centres including NIHR Global Health Unit and 2 UKRI “Growing Capabilities”
      centres (total c.£30m).
     ERC Synergy Awards in humanities (Cosmological Visionaries), biological sciences (£15m)
      and 5 ERC Advanced Grants in languages/history/arts/health research.
     MRC, British Heart Foundation and Cancer Research UK Centres (total c.£30m)
     Leverhulme Wildfire Research Centre (£10m, with Imperial College).
     Wellcome Innovation Flagship in Psychosis (£15m).
     UK in a Changing Europe Hub (ESRC, total c.£6m).

4.2      Institutional Internal Funding Programmes
Institutional funding programmes support new research ideas, collaborations, and
translational/impact activities. These are managed by the Research Development Team,
maximising opportunities for synergy between programmes and ensuring visibility.

     King’s Together: £1m/year flagship Research Strategy initiative to drive new multidisciplinary
      collaborations, allocated as £20-100k awards. >£30m of follow-on awards have already been
      secured. Our rapid-response COVID-19 research funding call (first decisions on 23rd March),
      supported outcomes including the COVID Symptom Study/App and UKRI NHS CHECK
      programme.
     Research & Development Challenge Fund: c.£1m/year, for projects of up to £80k, aimed at
      bridging the gap between fundamental science and translational product
      (therapy/device/diagnostic) development (funded by MRC Confidence in Concept). Outcomes
      include >£150m follow on funding (inc. spinouts Gammadelta Therapeutics, Quell


                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
      Therapeutics), and major industry collaborations. Aligned £1m Challenge Fund for Multiple
      Long-Term Conditions.
     ESRC Impact Accelerator: we are the only multi-Faculty institution in London to host an
      ESRC IAA, (>£1m/4 years). Funding is awarded competitively through Advancing Impact
      Awards, supporting engagement with 33 external partners from government, civil society, and
      business. Activities include collaborative workshops building on health policy for homeless
      people, which have influenced national policy on transfers of care and ‘Safeguarding’, with new
      resources being rolled out across the NHS in 2020.
     EPSRC Impact Accelerator: >£2m since 2015 to support impact from EPSRC-funded grants.
      This has leveraged £4.6M of additional funding from industry and others, seeding 22 new
      academic-industry partnerships.
     King’s Health Accelerator, now King’s Commercial Development Fund: supports staff to
      commercialise research. Since 2012 it has invested >£4m, producing 88 Commercial
      Development Plans.
     Faculty-level pilot funding is offered in many areas – for example £170k/year in Social
      Sciences – to kickstart new research programmes.

4.3      Research Support
We have invested significantly in research support, including:

     Research Development: c.10 PhD-qualified staff supporting development of strategic
      researching funding applications, providing academic staff training and acting as a key point of
      expertise on research funding. This function includes specialist support to develop and
      manage industry partnerships. The team has supported c.£500m of awards in the current REF
      period.
     Research Management: recent successful deployment of new Worktribe system for grant
      management and costing; restructure of pre-/post-award and contracts/governance functions;
      launch of Research Management Helpdesk as single point of contact; establishment of
      Research Data Analysis Team.
     Impact & Engagement Services: Expert support to embed public engagement and impact
      activities in research programmes.
     King’s hosts the London NIHR Research Design Service to improve statistical and
      methodological design of research programmes.

4.4      Infrastructure and Core Facilities
King’s offers a range of world-class research facilities, overseen by the Research Facilities
Strategic Management Board. Facilities include:

     Medical Imaging: clinical research capabilities including London ultra-high field 7T
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) facility, 10 research MRI systems including PET/MR,
      interventional X-ray/MR suite, 3 PET/CT scanners and PET tracer manufacturing facility with
      two cyclotrons. Dedicated pre-clinical imaging facilities including MRI PET/CT, SPECT/CT
      and ultrasound.
     Nikon Imaging Centre: cutting-edge light microscopy facility in partnership with Nikon (one of
      9 worldwide); linked Nikon Centre of Excellence in Advanced Neuroscience Imaging;
      adjacent Microscopy Innovation Centre.
     Centre for Ultrastructural Imaging: advanced electron microscopy facility with some of the
      most advanced equipment in Europe, in partnership with JEOL.
     Centre of Excellence for Mass Spectrometry: provides liquid and gas chromatography,
      matrix assisted laser desorption ionisation and inductively coupled plasma, advanced data
      analysis; dedicated proteomics facility.
     Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Facility (NMR): state-of-the-art spectrometers configured to
      address biological questions.
     London Metallomics Facility: the UK’s first facility.



                                                                                                Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   Immune Monitoring Platform: with (GSTT Biomedical Research Centre) Cutting-edge
    immune profiling for pre-clinical/clinical samples, with advanced flow cytometry inc. imaging
    mass cytometry.
   Genomics and Biomarker Facility: CSPro-certified provider of Illumina platforms; state of the
    art robotics and LIMS tracking.
   MRC/NIHR Single Cell Functional Genomics Facility: low- and high-throughput single cell
    workflows with integrated data analysis.
   Advanced Therapies Accelerator: pre-GMP laboratory facilities for cell and gene therapy,
    linked to GMP cell therapy suites and lenti/retrovirus manufacturing facilities.
   Materials, Synthesis and Characterisation Facility: state-of-the-art instruments, including
    Atomic Force Microscopy, Scanning Electron Microscopes, and spectrometers.
   Wellcome/Wolfson Medical Devices Manufacturing Facility and Mock Interventional Suite
    (Operating Room): facilities to manufacture of first-in-patient complex medical devices and
    evaluate in humans post-mortem (opening 2021).
   UK 5G Testbed and London 5G Tactile Internet Lab: London’s first 5G prototype testbed,
    supporting cloud robotics, live video streaming, haptic applications and synchronised reality
    (UK Government with Ericsson).

Sustainability of our research facilities is central to our strategy. King’s is piloting LEAF: A new
framework for lab sustainability, to reduce impact on the environment. We have reduced Scope
1/2 carbon emissions by 54% since 2005/06, and emissions per staff/student FTE from 2.41 to
0.64 tonnes/year.

Research infrastructure includes:

   eResearch: enabling computational and data-intensive research across King’s. Includes a
    High-Performance Compute Cluster and cloud server, supporting large-scale data analytics,
    Ceph storage for long-term curation, and an OpenStack private cloud with flexible, scalable
    development environments, allowing users greater control using virtual machines. We have
    invested in new posts to coordinate eResearch (linking advanced research requirements to IT
    systems and planning), and plan major investment over the next year.
   King’s Digital Lab is a humanities and social science Research Software Engineering (RSE)
    facility, working with researchers at King’s, other universities and cultural heritage
    organisations to produce digital tools (repositories, archives, visualizations, maps, mobile
    applications) and immersive experiences. The team of 13 project managers, analysts, UI/UX
    designers, and engineers use industry standard software engineering methods tailored to
    specific disciplinary contexts.
   King’s Health Partners Clinical Trials Office and UKCRC-Accredited Clinical Trials Unit:
    providing oversight, governance, sponsorship, management, statistical expertise, design and
    analysis for clinical trials across our partnership.
   Clinical Research Facilities: Four facilities across partner NHS Trusts, including MHRA
    phase 1 accredited facility (one of only two NHS units in England), paediatric facility, specialist
    neuroscience and mental health facility, and advanced imaging facility. The CRFs play a vital
    role in translation of scientific breakthroughs into improved healthcare, and include a CRUK
    Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre.
   Guy’s & St Thomas’ and South London & Maudsley NIHR Biomedical Research Centres:
    £130m infrastructure funding over 5 years to support translational research (King’s is the
    academic partner). Strengths include advanced therapies and experimental medicine (GSTT),
    mental health (SLaM) and clinical data science.
   King’s Technology Evaluation Centre (KiTEC): A Health Technology Assessment centre
    supported by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).

Coming soon: London Institute for Healthcare Engineering (Research England, Siemens,
Medtronic, Nvidia, IBM and GSK, providing dedicated facilities for academic-industry-clinical
collaboration), and MRC Gene Therapy Innovation Hub (GMP AAV and lentivirus
production/innovation).

                                                                                                Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

Our research is enhanced through patient and public involvement and engagement (PPIE), in
collaboration with the NHS and other (e.g. cultural) partners. This is detailed in individual Unit of
Assessment Environment Statements.

4.5    Facilitating the Delivery of Research Impact
King’s is fully committed to delivering impact through our research, as described in Pillar 4 of our
Research Strategy (Section 2). This is achieved through internal support, our Innovation Institutes
and national/international partnerships.

King’s Innovation Institutes (supporting research impact and engagement)

King's Innovation Institutes are university-wide structures which create impact by acting as an
interface between our research activities and the outside world – including policy makers, the
cultural sector, and commercial partners.

King’s Cultural Community
Across and beyond King’s, an inclusive cultural community brings together artists, cultural partners
and researchers in collaborations that enhance research, drive innovation and support impact and
engagement while serving the needs of the cultural sector. A central Culture team supports,
strengthens and showcases the work of this community through brokering and facilitating
partnerships and through a series of programmes that support the research strategy by provoking
new approaches to research, testing and scaling up and disseminating research findings. Several
spaces across the campuses are dedicated to this distinctive cultural engagement, including the
Arcade at Bush House and Science Gallery London, a free to visit space in London Bridge, opened
in 2018, with a particular focus on connecting art, science and health to drive innovation in the
heart of the city.

Entrepreneurship Institute
The Entrepreneurship Institute supports entrepreneurial thinking, skills and experiences amongst
King’s students, staff and alumni. The Institute’s activities are delivered through three strands:
Engage, Skills and Accelerate. The Institute’s year-long programme includes access to expert
knowledge, space and access to investment. 81 new ventures have been created, £20m funding
raised, revenue of £17m delivered, +400 new jobs created, and 69% of ventures are still trading.

Policy Institute
The Policy Institute aims to solve society’s challenges with evidence and expertise, and combines
academic rigour with the agility of a consultancy and the connectedness of a think tank. The
Institute’s research draws on a wide range of disciplines and methods, making use of skills,
expertise of resources from across the university and its wider network. The Institute works across
six main research areas, with communications, impact and engagement an important connecting
thread. Its research themes are: The value of evidence, Defence and security policy, Health
systems and delivery, Communities and opportunity, Cities, growth and innovation, and Trust, facts
and democracy. Examples of its work include King's Commission on London launched by the
Mayor, Sadiq Khan, in 2018. Additional policy partnerships include the Strand Group, the Global
Institute for Women’s Leadership, and the Health & Social Care Workforce Research Unit,
aiming to drive societal change.

Arts & Humanities Research Institute
The AHRI is a platform to mobilise impactful, social justice-oriented research and education
collaborations with civil society organisations. It supports 13 interdisciplinary research centres.

Commercialisation Institute and IP & Licensing
King’s Commercialisation Institute and IP & Licensing function focuses on the acceleration of
research breakthroughs into commercially-viable products and services. Staff are provided with
bespoke support to create commercial development plans, to understand the needs, opportunities
and requirements for their inventions, and to spin out or licence their technologies as appropriate.

                                                                                                Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
We have recently reorganised and expanded this function, with a doubling of budget, and
leveraged additional funding for research impact including a Wellcome Innovation Translational
Partnership Award.

Recent successes include the spinouts Quell Therapeutics, Gammadelta Therapeutics,
Neurogeneus and many more: our spin-outs attract c.£100m/year investment. Major licensing
deals include a $340m (including milestone payments) agreement with Merck on a new pain
treatment, the most valuable achieved by a British university for a specific drug development
programme.

We have also created a medtech commercialisation joint venture with GSTT, KCH and SLaM NHS
Trusts, which is raising its own early-stage investment fund of £50m.

Global Engagement

King’s has over 300 global partnerships, supported by a dedicated Global Engagement (GE) team
to build deeper, broader, multi-disciplinary relationships. Examples of university-wide partnerships
include:
 Launched in 2016, the PLuS Alliance between King’s, Arizona State University and University
    of New South Wales has created a network of 120 fellows working together to find solutions to
    issues of sustainability, global health and social justice. We have jointly created TEDI, a new
    engineering university in London, expected to grow to 5,000 students over the next decade.
 King’s and Peking University Health Sciences Centre are collaborating within a joint institute for
    medical research to address major health issues related to cancer and cardiovascular care,
    dentistry and mental health.
 Our 10-year relationship with the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill has driven
    collaborations including workshops/conferences in History, Philosophy, Literature and Music,
    and the recent publication of joint King’s-UNC essay collections.

4.6    Supporting the Reproducibility of Research
As described in Sections 2.2 & 2.3, King’s has a strong commitment to research integrity, open
science and improving research reproducibility. We are a formal institutional member of the UK
Reproducibility Network (UKRN) with a focus on understanding the factors that contribute to robust
research, promoting training, and disseminating best practice across the university. Our approach
is to understand the factors that contribute to poor research reproducibility and replicability across
different disciplines, adapt approaches to counter these, and revaluate in order to see
improvement in trustworthiness and quality of research. This work is a key component of our wider
initiatives around research culture.




                                                                                               Page 13
