Metanoia Institute (REF5a)
 Institution:

 Metanoia Institute

 1. Context and mission

 Metanoia Institute is a well-established educational charity and professional training institution.
 The Institute specialises in professional-body accredited (UKCP, BACP, BPS, HCPC) training
 programmes for counsellors, psychotherapists, counselling psychologists, supervisors, coaches
 and organisational development consultants. For over 30 years, Metanoia Institute has provided
 high-quality professional training through university validated undergraduate, postgraduate and
 doctoral programmes in Counselling, Psychotherapy, Counselling Psychology and allied fields.
 Practitioner training and qualifications are offered within a supportive and inclusive environment.

 Metanoia Institute was founded in the early 1980s as one of the primary organisations in the UK
 to offer humanistic-oriented professionally accredited therapeutic training. Metanoia Institute is
 an Organisational Member of the UK Association of Counselling and Psychotherapy (UKCP),
 providing students with a rigorous theoretical and practice-based framework which facilitates
 fully qualified, professionally registered and ethical graduates ready to enter practice, their
 chosen employment or further study.

 This is the first REF submission made by Metanoia Institute. As the submission is being made
 to just one Unit of Assessment, REF5a is not a requirement of this process; however it provides
 useful contextual information to accompany a first submission. It is also offered as evidencing a
 young and growing culture of research that has been afforded sustainability through a
 commitment demonstrated by investment in staffing, time and support for research.

 As of March 2021 Metanoia Institute has 1,075 students registered across all programmes,
 comprising 193 full-time and 882 part-time students. Given the nature of the programmes, the
 entry requirements and lifelong learning prominence of the profession, as well as the
 postgraduate emphasis within the institution, all students are mature. Current registration
 numbers are:
     • 184 students on undergraduate degree programmes (validated by the University of
         Middlesex)
     • 9 students on undergraduate diploma routes (professional body validated)
     • 422 students on MSc / MA degree programmes (validated by the University of
         Middlesex)
     • 272 students on postgraduate diploma routes (professional body validated)
     • 186 students on doctoral programmes (PhD, Professional Doctorate, Doctorate by Public
         Works; all joint provision with the University of Middlesex)

 Metanoia Institute is organised across three Faculties; Faculty One (Psychotherapy and
 Counselling), Faculty Two (Research and Doctoral Programmes) and Faculty Three (Applied
 Social and Organisational Sciences). There are 132 staff employed at the Institute, representing
 academic and teaching staff, institutional management and administration, clinical and support
 staff. Many contracts are part time, reflecting the size and business needs of the institution as
 well as the continuing professional practice of academic staff.

 As an Organisational Member of UKCP, Metanoia Institute also offers a range of Continuing
 Professional Development (CPD) events and opportunities for alumni as well as current students
 and staff.

 Metanoia Institute is a small and specialist institution currently in the process of applying for
 independent degree awarding powers (DAPs) and, in time, university title. It is the ambition of
 the Institute to be the first university specialising in counselling and psychotherapy professional
 training, postgraduate qualifications and evidence-based practice.


                                                                                               Page 1
Metanoia Institute (REF5a)
 Metanoia Institute is based in the London Borough of Ealing. The Institute owns, outright, two
 Edwardian buildings, in close proximity, situated around Ealing Common. The buildings
 replicate the therapeutic environment for training, providing a supportive and inclusive
 atmosphere. The property in Gunnersbury Avenue also houses the Metanoia Counselling and
 Psychotherapy Service (MCPS). Here, Metanoia Institute offers a confidential, low-cost service
 for the community, providing individual weekly counselling and psychotherapy services for help
 with depression and anxiety, post-natal depression, alcohol and/or drug use, parenting
 difficulties, sexual difficulties, relationship difficulties, self-harm, personality problems and coping
 difficulties.

 MCPS is partially funded by NHS Ealing, with clients being both NHS and self-referred. The
 Metanoia clinic allows the Institute to provide placements for students, as well as operating a
 centre for practice-based research. All counsellors, psychotherapists and psychologists at
 MCPS are in fully supervised training at Metanoia Institute, with practitioners representing
 diverse backgrounds and ethnicities.

 In addition, Metanoia Institute provides a school-based counselling service, Here4You, offering
 high quality, professional mental health services to students in secondary schools and colleges
 in London. Here4You also provides support to secondary school and college staff in order to
 promote wellbeing. The service provides qualified counsellors, trained in the humanistic
 approach, delivering a professional, evidence-based service in collaboration with the young
 person and school staff.

 The mission of Metanoia Institute is to provide excellence in counselling, psychotherapy,
 counselling psychology and applied psychology training and qualifications. In conjunction with
 this, it is the stated purpose of Metanoia Institute to develop and enhance the work and
 reputation of the Institute in practice-based research and scholarship, through fostering an active
 research culture and provision of accessible and effective educational and clinical services to the
 wider community. The Metanoia Counselling and Psychotherapy Service clinic is fundamental
 to this mission.



 2. Strategy

 Metanoia Institute Research Centre is based in Faculty Two. The Centre has developed a
 number of research groups, led by academic staff, demonstrating engagement with different
 areas of professional practice. All research groups are open to staff and students across all
 faculties, as well as external partners who wish to join us. An annual Research Academy event
 offers the opportunity to support, encourage, celebrate and disseminate research at Metanoia
 Institute. Members of the Metanoia community engage in a range of national and international
 research events.

 The strategy for research at Metanoia Institute is to promote an active, lively and contemporary
 research culture which supports evidence-based practice to influence public and professional
 understanding and policy in counselling and psychotherapy. This is achieved through the
 Research Centre in Faculty Two, which operates as a hub for developing research groups and
 initiatives. Engagement in research groups is open to the Metanoia Institute community, leading
 to the development of an inclusive and supportive research culture and exchange.

 Projects, impact and activity developing from the Research Centre are channelled through the
 Metanoia Institute Research Committee. The membership of this committee includes academic,
 teaching, clinical and administrative staff as well as students. There is an opportunity to refresh
 membership on a two-yearly basis, when expressions of interest in membership are circulated to
 all staff and student representatives.




                                                                                                   Page 2
Metanoia Institute (REF5a)


 The Institute’s ethos of high quality training and practice leads us to engage in developing
 research partnerships, both locally and internationally, with a variety of professional, academic
 and community groups.

 The oversight of Metanoia Institute research strategy, its monitoring and implementation, is
 delegated to Metanoia Institute Research Committee and approved by Academic Board. The
 strategic aims are:
     • To encourage, support and monitor research, scholarship and innovation to make a
         significant contribution to the Institute’s academic standing.
     • To support the development of high-quality research of relevance to clinical practice and
         the professional field of psychological therapies and related disciplines.
     • To develop a community of practice and facilitate the exchange of research knowledge
         and ideas.
     • To support the development of intra and inter-disciplinary research.
     • To support the development of applications for external funding for appropriate research
 The Metanoia Institute Clinical Ethics Research Committee oversees all research applications
 and proposals and acts as a reference point for clinical ethics matters.

 The strategic aims are further elaborated by the Metanoia Institute Research Centre which
 clarifies the Institute’s emphasis on practise-based research; specifically the development of
 psychotherapy practise and a practitioner-researcher voice in clinical practice and research,
 development of psychotherapy treatment theories, routine psychotherapy practice and
 community engagement. To that cause, publications by Metanoia Institute staff and students are
 primarily focused on psychotherapy and counselling publications which are widely read within
 the profession.

 Full Details of Metanoia Institute research groups can be found here: Research Groups

 Metanoia Institution research and publications (including doctoral research) can be found on
 Mirep, the Metanoia Institute Research Repository.

 Metanoia Institute is committed to promoting a sustainable research culture. This is given
 structure through the Faculty of Research and Doctoral Programmes, where academic staff
 linked to project management and the research clinic are based. Although a small, charity-based
 organisation, Metanoia Institute’s commitment to employing staff with responsibility for research
 is demonstrable evidence of a vital and sustainable culture of research.




                                                                                              Page 3
Metanoia Institute (REF5a)




 All full time senior academic staff at Director of Studies or Faculty Head level have a 0.2 fte
 allocation to scholarly activity and/or clinical practice. The research committee has an annual
 budget for staff research grants, and a budget for research start-up costs. Metanoia Institute
 currently employs two Senior Research Fellows to support research and research teams.

 Whilst the Metanoia Institute research culture is led from the Faculty of Research and Doctoral
 Programmes, it engages with the wider Metanoia community through communication, committee
 membership, student representation and institute-wide events such as the annual Research
 Academy and research seminars. In March 2020 a Communications and Marketing Officer was
 appointed at Metanoia Institute, a post which has facilitated a lively and active engagement with,
 and promotion of, research. Over the past 12 months Metanoia Institute has considerably
 increased social media presence and voice in relation to research activity, outputs and public
 engagement. See Twitter: @Metanoia_Inst

 Metanoia Institute places high value on social responsibility and engages in a number of
 community projects within the UK (MCPS research clinic, Counselling for Depression and
 Here4You) as well as internationally through Erasmus and European projects (women with
 mental health problems in rural areas, youth workers engaging with refugees).

 The intercultural emphasis of the Institutional research strategy is evidenced through the
 Multilingual Awareness in Psychotherapy research group.


 3. People

 The link to the Metanoia Institute Code of Practice can be found
 here: https://metanoia.ac.uk/research/metanoia-institute-code-of-practice-for-ref2021/

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Please see Metanoia Institute REF5b for detailed information.
 Metanoia Institute is making a submission to one UoA only, and as such REF5a is not a
 requirement, but has been provided as supporting and contextual information. Rather than
 duplicate submission evidence, required information can be found in Section 3 of REF5b.




                                                                                              Page 4
