Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: SOAS University of London

 1. Context and mission

 SOAS University of London is the UK’s only specialist higher education institution focused on the
 study of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and their diasporas. Spanning arts, humanities,
 languages and social sciences, academic expertise at SOAS is deeply and uniquely rooted in
 engagement with other parts of the world. Our internationalism and commitment to justice,
 diversity, equality, inclusion and decolonising knowledge and research practices infuse all that
 we do, including our major contribution to understanding of plurivocal British cultures.

 We currently have 5,988 undergraduate and postgraduate students studying on campus and
 3,126 students registered on distance and online programmes.

 The SOAS Mission is to:

    •   advance knowledge and understanding of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and diasporas
        through cutting-edge research and scholarship;
    •   demonstrate the interconnectedness and changing contours of the world;
    •   use skills and knowledge to transform inequalities, prejudice and discrimination, change
        mindsets, discourses, policies and practices;
    •   work towards decolonising knowledge acquisition and exchange, from research and
        teaching to writing and publishing;
    •   build equitable partnerships with activists, artists, civil society organisations,
        governments and universities, around the world; and
    •   foster a new generation of researchers and thinkers who can understand and engage
        with the world as global citizens.

 The assessment period has been transformative for SOAS’s research infrastructure and
 culture: moving from paper to electronic application, accountancy and research management
 processes; professionalising and expanding numbers and functions of research support
 personnel; and embarking on institution-wide research literacy programmes focused on funding
 opportunities, and research management, ethics, reporting and data storage; and the priority we
 have given to research signalled in the physical transformation of the research office from a
 cramped room in an outlying building to a hub space in the everyday heart of campus. The
 results of these efforts are evident in the increase in income, stream-lined management of
 research, and ambitious investments in institutional culture and capacity.

 Working towards the public celebration of the SOAS centenary in 2016, we collectively refined
 five institutional-level research themes—Global Voices; Heritage of Humanity; Global
 Interactions; Sharing a Small Planet; and Global Diplomacy and Governance—to crosscut the
 three faculties: Languages and Cultures; Arts and Humanities; Law and Social Sciences.

 The following year, SOAS restructured to align financial and planning decisions with academic
 activity, and the possibility of inter-disciplinary collaboration in teaching and research, turning
 three faculties into six schools (Arts; Finance and Management; History Religion and
 Philosophies; Interdisciplinary Studies; Languages, Cultures and Linguistics; Law) and five
 departments (Anthropology; Development Studies; East Asian Languages and Cultures;
 Economics; Politics and International Relations).

 Our regional expertise is showcased in inter-disciplinary centres and institutes focused on
 Africa, Central Asia, China, Middle East, Japan, Korea, Palestine, South Asia and South East
 Asia. Thematic centres include those focused on Jewish, Christian, Islamic and Zoroastrian
 Studies. These hubs facilitate research, knowledge exchange, academic hospitality and many
 hundreds of public-facing events each year. To enhance our outward-facing presence, SOAS
 established two new interdisciplinary institutes to offer an expert resource for the wider world
 of business, policy and media. The SOAS China Institute (launched 2014) and SOAS South Asia

                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institute (2015) bring together more than 50 regional experts. Until 2020, the School of
 Interdisciplinary Studies housed centres for International Studies and Diplomacy, Gender
 Studies, Environment and Development, and Global Media and Communication, now located in
 departments.

 The SOAS Brunei Gallery is a magnificent exhibition space, a locus for engagement with
 diverse publics, including from local schools. We host two award-winning creative enterprises
 established by alumni, Chouette Films and PositiveNegatives. The SOAS Festival of Ideas—
 one of the key new initiatives emerging from the School’s investment in its critical,
 interdisciplinary profile—showcases SOAS research expertise and national and transnational
 networks on a global scale. In the year of the pandemic, the Festival, now online, brought
 together cutting-edge scholars, artists and activists from around the world to reflect on the theme
 of ‘Decolonising Knowledge’, involving the community around SOAS and organisations working
 with marginalised groups for the betterment of community life.

 SOAS hosts many large research consortia and innovative re-granting programmes,
 including the influential Anti-Corruption Evidence (ACE) consortium (£6.0m, five years), the
 Research and Evidence Facility on migration in the Horn of Africa (€6.5m, five years), the
 Arcadia-funded Endangered Languages Programme—which has supported 450 language
 documentation projects with a five-year grant renewal of £7.2m in 2015—and the £1.8m Global
 Research Network for Parliaments and People, which has awarded over £800k to scholars,
 artists and activists’ creative and research projects. SOAS also co-convenes the Engaged
 Research Fund of the Open Society University Network (OSUN).

 Against this positive backdrop, SOAS has faced a challenging period as a small institution in a
 changing higher education landscape. There have been losses of academic staff, especially in
 the Humanities. In May 2020, the School embarked on a substantial and positive set of reforms,
 emerging more resilient and financially stable. During this period, collaborative research
 governance, collective efforts to create an enabling and supportive research culture and the
 deployment of specialist expertise amongst our academic and professional services have helped
 to protect our research.

 In the wake of a pandemic that has revealed anew the world’s stark inequalities, our core
 commitment at SOAS is to continue to develop and promote more egalitarian, representative,
 intersectional, dialogic and accountable research practices, in a thriving and sustainable
 institutional research environment. As we rebuild, research is at the very heart of our new
 strategic agenda.

 2. Strategy

 In the assessment period, SOAS pursued a three-part strategy to: (a) grow externally funded
 research activity, with ambitious research income growth targets and enhanced support for
 successful grant applications; (b) introduce policies, processes and practices to create a more
 equitable, enabling and inclusive research culture and enhance the quality of our research
 output; and (c) amplify impact and public engagement.

    •   To achieve growth in research income, SOAS invested significantly in structured
        support for grant development, which saw a marked impact on research income, with
        growth from £4.3m in 2013/14 to £8.5m in 2018/19. This trajectory was underpinned by a
        striking increase in annual new grant awards, for instance from £2.7m in 2013/14 to
        £24.6m in 2017/18, with rising success for highly competitive grants, evidenced in a 50%
        success rate in ERC awards in 2018/19, and prestigious Future Leader Fellowship and
        Leverhulme Research Leadership awards.

    •   To create an enabling environment for researchers, research leave was reformed to
        give a generous allowance of one term after eight, with two terms post-probation leave
        for early-career researchers (ECRs), researcher development activities developed,

                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        including research coaching, mentoring, publication and career-development workshops,
        including activities aimed specifically at ECRs and PhD students, and a new workload
        allocation model (WAMS) was developed that integrated research into workload
        planning. Associate Director of Research (ADR) positions were created to lend
        focused support to strategic priorities: ADR (Researcher Development and Ethics,
        including a dedicated focus on ECRs), ADR (Impact and Public Engagement) and ADR
        (Resources and Research Environment). The role of departmental research co-
        ordinators was strengthened, becoming Departmental Directors of Research with clear
        job descriptions and teaching remission.

    •   To amplify our impact, an Impact Working Group was established, launching a new
        Impact Strategy in 2019. Our promotions procedure was revised to more fully embrace
        impact and engagement. A dedicated impact team was created, with an Associate
        Director post dedicated to impact and engagement, and support both for documenting
        and for creating impact, including new initiatives such as the Influencing Corridors of
        Power project, which draws on SOAS research expertise to produce timely briefings for
        the media and members of both Houses of Parliament.

 Our strategy for the next five years continues in pursuit of our mission with ambitious new
 plans to enhance our research excellence as a globally connected institution with partnerships
 with world-class researchers in the Global South. We will continue to build on our success in
 increasing research income, redouble our efforts to create a truly inclusive and enabling
 research culture, through new initiatives to amplify the voices of researchers from historically
 marginalised groups, address the ‘broken pipeline’ of Black students into academic careers and
 through the expansion of research coaching, ideas-incubation, sponsorship and mentoring, and
 other activities geared at producing research of highest quality published in the best journals and
 presses, cited widely and used by those addressing the global issues of our times.

 As part of this strategy:

    •   Impact and knowledge exchange will be embedded in all we do, equipping our
        researchers with skills to become fluent interlocutors and influencers. We will
        continue to invest in impact, with a dedicated impact team, online impact training and
        workshops on public engagement and knowledge exchange, using expert external
        facilitators, peer-to-peer exchange and mentoring. The creation in 2021 of a high-profile
        impact and engagement advisory panel and further targeted catalyst funds will help
        increase engagement with UK and international stakeholders to amplify our influence;

    •   Research partnerships will gain greater primacy, placing the principles of equity,
        transparency and inclusion and our decolonising mission at their heart. SOAS
        researchers will build on experience in creating strong, enduring and equitable
        partnerships with partners in Asia, Africa and the Middle East to engage in co-design,
        collaboration and co-production. Our strategy will include further collaborations with civil
        society organisations, governments and philanthropic donors, strengthening existing ties
        with cultural institutions and international agencies—from the British Museum and the
        British Library to UN agencies and the World Bank—building new relationships with
        leading research-intensive universities in the Global South;

    •   SOAS Research Online and new Open Access digitisation and publishing ventures
        will take priority as we seek to open up our knowledge to the world and enhance
        our visibility and presence in global fora. Our annual £20k publications fund extends
        the support UKRI offers us for Open Access publications; we will go beyond this, not only
        committing further resources to increase access through platforms like Knowledge
        Unlatched (Language Science Press), but also establishing our own open access journal
        with Cambridge University Press (proposal agreed) and providing support for Open
        Access self-publishing. Proactive engagement with our researchers has led to a 30%


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        increase in repository deposits in the last year; our goal is for as much of our research as
        possible to be freely accessible online to be used without restriction;

    •   Public engagement and knowledge exchange will enable us to better serve
        London’s diaspora communities and facilitate stronger connections with Asia,
        Africa and the Middle East. Our researchers are encouraged to act as catalysts to
        amplify influence, with dedicated School support. Our strategy seeks to connect us more
        deeply with communities in London, with our researchers engaging with civic and arts
        organisations and local government across the capital to engage diverse publics and
        continue opening up SOAS to London’s diaspora communities. Our public engagement
        and knowledge exchange work will engage our networks in Asia, Africa and the Middle
        East in influencing business, government and civil society on the global issues of our
        times, making use of our convening power, co-convening with prominent global south
        and international partners and engagement in international fora on issues like climate
        change, sustainable finance, women’s empowerment and financial inclusion;

    •   We will seek to decolonise our research practices and redress structural inequities
        in research relationships. SOAS adopted a Decolonising SOAS Vision in 2017,
        supporting further recognition and debate about the wide, complex and varied impacts of
        colonialism, imperialism and racism in shaping our university. We committed, inter alia, to
        research practices of reflective intellectual collaboration with Global South colleagues, as
        co-producers of knowledge, and ongoing public conversations about the past, present
        and future significance of imperialism and colonialism. Our Decolonising SOAS Research
        Statement sets out further commitments, including increasing scholarship opportunities
        for marginalised groups to participate in and lead on knowledge production and
        dissemination and engaging with funding bodies to decolonise research design
        frameworks and funding schemes. We plan to launch a Decolonising Research
        Consortium by the end of 2021 to raise awareness around ongoing colonial practices,
        apply critical analysis to research and funding frameworks in the UK and Europe, and
        contribute to developing new approaches directly informed by the perspectives and
        experiences of diverse local partners.
     •
 2.1 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 SOAS is deeply committed to creating and maintaining a culture of Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion, with our Pro-Director (Research & Enterprise) and ADRs serving as Chair and key
 members of our institutional EDI Committee. We have carried through this commitment in the
 construction of our REF submission, with procedures informed by EDI best practice. We have
 sought diverse membership REF committees/panels. Equality impact assessments have been
 conducted and actions taken to mitigate against impacts. We have raised awareness of EDI
 principles and sought to address biases through mandatory REF-specific EDI workshops.

 Our 2016-20 EDI Strategy established institutional commitments, further advanced in our 2020-
 26 EDI Strategic Plan. Our Athena SWAN Bronze was renewed in 2019 and we are working
 towards the Race Equality Charter. We have built institutional capacity to support these
 commitments, appointing Equalities Champions and establishing an EDI Network. Our
 Culture@SOAS initiative convenes a cross-institutional action group of staff and students to
 work together to promote a positive and inclusive working culture.

 2.2 Structures supporting interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinarity is deeply embedded in our ways of working. Interdisciplinary interests in
 climate change, conflict, security, corruption, corporate governance, democracy, diplomacy,
 gender, sexuality, humanitarianism, protection of linguistic diversity, environment, natural
 resource management, political economy, poverty and racial justice bring together scholars from
 across the School. In recent years, we have evolved structures to support bid development for
 interdisciplinary research and won several large interdisciplinary programmatic awards.

                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 These have provided a structured opportunity for interdisciplinary research, including on digital
 humanities, computational linguistics, nutrition, culture heritage, mental and public health.
 Membership of the London International Development Centre and the Bloomsbury SET has
 enabled further connections with the natural and medical sciences, such as research on
 antimicrobial resistance in Africa with LSHTM and Royal Veterinary College.

 The principal structures supporting interdisciplinarity are our school- and department-level
 research centres. Through seminars, workshops and conferences hosted by our centres and
 institutes, interdisciplinary research interests are fostered and advanced, with funding from the
 School’s strategic fund and a variety of internal catalyst funds. Initiatives such as our ‘Lunch and
 Learn’ research development series combines panels of experts with biographies of complex
 interdisciplinary research programmes, aimed at equipping the next generation of researchers
 with insights and inspiration.

 Our world-class National Research Library provides a locus for interdisciplinary archival and
 special collections research, bringing together experts from across the arts and humanities.
 SOAS has a larger postgraduate student body than many universities; many postgraduate
 students pursue interdisciplinary studies, creating collaborative research-led teaching and
 supervision partnerships across our disciplines. Our dedicated Doctoral School has developed
 innovative interdisciplinary research methodology training modules and fosters interdisciplinary
 doctoral enquiry.


 3. People

 SOAS’ academic staff body is made up of 257 academics on teaching and research contracts,
 of which 7% are early-career researchers and 15% on fixed-term contracts, of whom more than
 a third are from ethnic minority backgrounds (36% BAME, 2% undeclared). 44% of our
 academics identify as female; our gender pay gap of 6.5% (mean) and 5.4% (median) is one of
 the lowest in the sector. 7% of our academic staff have declared a disability.

 3.1 Staffing strategy

 The School’s strategy for academic staff recruitment and development has been shaped by a
 twin commitment to excellence and equalities. Staffing strategy is led in the academic
 departments by a combination of strategic development of areas of critical mass and innovation
 that enable SOAS both to deepen existing areas of expertise and open up new and emerging
 fields of enquiry. Department-level research centres, committees and clusters serve as focal
 points for researcher development, organising manuscript workshops, writing retreats, bid-
 writing support, publications peer-review. Departmental Research Directors play a key role as
 facilitators of institutional initiatives such as ‘coach approach’-inspired Personal Research Plans
 and research mentoring. Our promotions guidance was reworked in 2019 to reflect a more
 rounded perspective on research achievement, to include research leadership, impact and
 influence; a proactive approach is taken to promotions, with mentoring and research coaching
 playing a role in developing talent.

 In light of confidential feedback from REF2014, the School’s research leave policy was
 reviewed and substantially enhanced. As of 2015, staff on academic contracts have been
 eligible to apply for one term of research leave after eight of normal duties (previously, 1 in 12)
 and an additional term if they have taken parental leave between six and 12 months. Our ECRs
 have a three-year probation period with two terms of research leave on completion, and support
 in career development via a reduced teaching load. Horizontal networks (e.g., a large grant
 holders’ network) and task groups (e.g., a research finance working group) provided lateral
 mechanisms for collaborative research management development.

 The School supports all its staff with a wide range of development opportunities, from training
 in coaching and conflict resolution to the development of individualised career development

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 plans. We also offer an institution-wide development programme for our ECRs and research
 students, with regular fora for both groups, ECR PRPs and events such as a virtual bookfair with
 publishers, masterclasses and writing clinics. The Research and Enterprise Office also
 support fellowship applications for ECRs, including BA postdoctoral fellowships, UKRI FLF and
 ERC starting grants. SOAS was awarded the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2012, with
 successful reviews in 2014, 2018 and 2020, and re-accreditation in 2016.

 3.2 Support and training of research students

 SOAS’ institution-wide training programme for research students includes our own courses and
 workshops on research methods and skills, online and offline, and various intercollegiate training
 collaborations. A Doctoral School was established in 2012, to support our large (c500 students
 p.a.) and diverse (on average, 59% female and 53% BAME) research student community,
 academically and administratively, throughout the entire PhD journey. Our research students are
 equipped with dedicated resources, including a beautifully restored building as a work and
 social hub, advice from researcher development specialists and various grants (c£500-£1,000)
 that facilitate milestones of our PhD programme, such as overseas fieldwork, conference
 presentations and student-led events. Both departments and the Language Centre offer a wide
 range of Asian, African, Middle Eastern and European languages to SOAS postgraduate
 students.

 Each student undertakes a bespoke programme of training through the annual cycle of
 planning (Training Needs Analysis), recording (Log) and evaluation (Annual Review). PhD
 training takes place principally at the disciplinary level, led and overseen by the Directors of
 Doctoral Studies in the respective departments. This is complemented by interdisciplinary and
 transferable research skills training open to all research students. Departmental doctoral training
 is often interdisciplinary: the School of Law, for example, offers classes on legal history, legal
 anthropology, critical race and feminist and queer studies.

 Doctoral researchers are encouraged to develop a publishing profile and to submit
 publications to SOAS Research Online and the student-led Journal of Postgraduate Research.
 Many of our research students work as Graduate Teaching Assistants and they are provided
 with in-house teacher training and support for HEA Fellowship applications. The Careers
 Service offers tailored advice and guidance to research students, organises workshops on
 various career-related topics and information on career planning. Staff development offers
 supervisor training and support. The regional centres organise conferences and
 interdisciplinary events, which provide an excellent opportunity for postgraduate students and
 staff to network. We currently have some 200 memoranda of understanding with international
 organisations, allowing postgraduate exchange across 39 countries in Asia, Africa and the
 Middle East, managed by a dedicated Global Engagement Office.

 SOAS is a member of the AHRC’s CHASE Consortium, the ESRC’s UBEL DTP, the Bloomsbury
 Colleges group and the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network. We benefit from and
 contribute to training-sharing schemes and events within all these intercollegiate networks.

 3.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion in research careers

 Over the assessment period, SOAS has placed particular emphasis on equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Starting in 2013/14, a Model Equality and Diversity Employer (MEDE) working party
 was established in partnership with the trade unions. MEDE set in train a series of
 improvements: mandatory recruitment and selection training; compulsory unconscious bias
 training; achievement (one of the first four institutions nationally) in 2014 of the ECU Gender
 Equality Mark; followed by Athena SWAN Bronze, renewed in 2019; participation in the Aurora
 programme for women’s leadership; establishment of an Access and Inclusivity Forum; and
 other interventions aimed at creating a more inclusive working culture. From 2018, this work has
 been strengthened with the Culture@SOAS initiative, addressing broader issues of inclusion,
 dignity and voice.

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Our appointing procedures follow best practice in recruiting for diversity. We recognise the
 dynamics of ableism, sexism, gender binarism, heteronormativity and structural racism, as they
 play out in higher education, and have put in place a number of measures—including a standing
 Race, Accountability and Listening Action Group—that actively seek to provide an institutional
 response to structural drivers of inequality in academic career progression. We collect
 comprehensive employee data and use relevant demographic comparators to identify and
 address barriers in career progression. DORA principles are embedded in hiring, promotions
 and rewards. Measurable improvement in our performance has come as a result of initiatives
 such as mandatory unconscious bias training for interviewers and promotions panel members,
 enhanced monitoring of attendance at recruitment and selection training and a gender-balanced
 representation on interview and promotions panels. A special circumstances panel, chaired by
 the Pro-Director, considers cases where equalities should be considered in judging volume of
 research output in promotions. This has enabled us to recognise a broader spectrum of care
 considerations, mental health and disabilities.

 We have seen results in the gender breakdown of grant applications, including for internal
 awards, and in promotions outcomes. More than 50% of our most recent internal research grant
 awards were made to women; women accounted for 75% of our recent ERC grant successes. In
 the 2019/20 promotions round, 52% of candidates and 57% of promotions were women; 43% of
 candidates and 41% of promotions were people from Black, Asian and minority ethnic groups.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1 Income

 During the assessment period, our researchers were awarded 355 grants with a total value of
 £80.3m. Both the grant number and volume show a significant increase, compared to the
 previous period. For instance, the total income for REF 2021 is £45.9m, compared to £19.1m for
 2008-13. The overall volume included a significant amount of partners’ costs, as we were
 leading more than 20 large grants with multiple external/international partners. On average, we
 won 1.4 grants and £323k per academic FTE. £38.5 million in donations helped to sustain our
 vibrant research environment.

 Research income has increased year-on-year since 2013/14, nearly doubling from £4.3m in
 2013/14 to £8.5m in 2018/19. This can be attributed to the School’s significant investment in
 systems, software and people. We created dedicated pre- and post-award teams and a
 research strategy and information unit producing training materials, regular newsletters, a
 successful bid library and facilitating regular workshops on all aspects of the research life cycle.
 This produced better capacity to support larger research programmes and a more sustained
 focus on project and data management as well as impact, knowledge exchange and public
 engagement activities. We invested in Open Access advocacy and compliance, with support
 from the Scholarly Communications Team and discussions at early stages with researchers. We
 did a complete overhaul of our research ethics policies and procedures, providing greater
 alignment to the Concordat on Research Integrity, instituting a mandatory referral process for
 institutional ethical approval, compulsory Epigeum Research Integrity training, embedding
 safeguarding checks within the ethical review process and refining procedure for investigating
 allegations of misconduct in academic research.

 Internal funding schemes focus on building collaborations, proof of concept, promising
 knowledge exchange ideas, and accelerating and enhancing impact: Seed-corn Fund for
 exploring potential research collaborations (c£120,000/a); Impact Acceleration Fund
 (c£30,000/a); Impact Case Study Enhancement Fund (c£20,000/a); Knowledge Exchange Fund
 (c£30,000/a); and Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund (c£60,000/a, starting from 2019/20).
 We also invested c£200,000 in enhancing our capacity to manage research grant
 applications, procuring and implementing the pre-award module of Worktribe that seamlessly
 combines previously cumbersome processes and captures a wealth of research management

                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 information, which is scrutinised and analysed regularly. Significant investment has also been
 made in creating a central contracts database, for partnerships emanating from research
 grants and enterprise/knowledge exchange activities.

 4.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 In 2015, the Research and Enterprise Office was significantly enlarged and restructured. A
 bespoke research management system was developed to consolidate the notification,
 development, ethics and approval processes, which two years later led to the implementation of
 Worktribe. We saw engagement with the REO grow significantly, with an unprecedented
 increase in award volume and applications (1,215 submitted applications worth £300m from 480
 researchers). The REO also strategically targeted large-grant opportunities and prestigious
 fellowship schemes—such as ERC, MSCA, GCRF and BA—whereby blue-skies thinking and
 uniqueness of researchers’ specialities were encouraged, aligning with our focused areas of
 expertise.

 The Paul Webley Wing is a part of the Senate House complex, recently acquired and
 refurbished by SOAS. It houses state-of-the-art conference facilities and an expansive atrium for
 events and exhibitions.

 The SOAS Library is one of only five National Research Libraries in the UK. It houses over 1.3
 million volumes and a major collection of archives, manuscripts, rare books and special
 collections, an expanding Digital Library and a growing network of electronic resources. Special
 Collections hold c2,183m of rare books, journals and other printed materials, and c2,955m of
 archives and manuscripts in over 130 different languages; there are 500 original collections of
 archives. Approximately 750,000 pages have been digitised to date and made freely available.
 The Library develops research collections, focusing on materials in the languages of Asia, Africa
 and the Middle East as well as European-language materials relating to those regions. The
 broadening research interests of the School are reflected in collections on migration and
 diaspora, gender, food studies, film and media, financial management and international politics
 and diplomacy.

 The Brunei Gallery is an exciting SOAS venue that hosts a programme of changing
 contemporary and historical exhibitions from Asia, Africa and the Middle East. It exhibits work of
 academic significance as well as artistic merit and interest. The Gallery’s aim is to present and
 promote cultures from these regions and is a resource available to academic staff. Exhibitions
 showing the work of SOAS researchers in recent years include: Living Zoroastrianism (2018);
 Music, Faith and Diplomacy across the Silk Road (2017); and The Spiritual Highway: Religious
 World Making in Megacity Lagos (2014). SOAS also has excellent relations with the British
 Museum, the British Library and the Victoria and Albert Museum. A recent exhibition, ‘The
 Empire of the Sikhs’, told the story of a cosmopolitan empire that almost ended British rule in
 India in more than 100 dazzling artworks and objects, attracting some 30,000 visitors.

 SOAS Radio is an independent radio-station and production company. It broadcasts live radio
 weekly and produces music and speech podcasts with a focus on Asia, Africa, the Middle East
 and their Britain-based diasporas. Notable guest recordings include Luisa Diogo, Noam
 Chomsky, Fatima Bhutto, Yash Chopra, Danny Choo, Ken Loach and Amadou&Mariam.




                                                                                              Page 8
