Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 1. Context and mission
 Founded in 1900, The University of Birmingham (UoB) is a civic, research-intensive
 University with a strong global footprint. Our goal is to use our strengths in research and
 education to find solutions to the big problems of our day, increasing well-being, social
 mobility and prosperity globally and locally.

 The University comprises around 36,900 students (22,500 UG, 11,000 PGT; 3,400 PGR)
 and 8,500 staff, (2,700 academic staff, 1,560 REF-eligible). A founder member of the
 Russell Group and Universitas 21, we regularly rank among the top 100 in major
 international league tables.

 We have one of the broadest disciplinary bases of any UK university, submitting to 28
 UOAs in REF2021. Structurally, UoB is divided into 5 academic Colleges: Medical and
 Dental Sciences (MDS; Main Panel A (MPA)), Engineering and Physical Sciences (EPS;
 MPB), Life and Environmental Sciences (LES; MPs A, B and C), Social Sciences (CoSS;
 MPC) and Arts and Law (CAL; MPs D and C). The latter 4 Colleges are further divided
 into 4 to 7 Schools, the lowest level of budgetary academic unit. In 2015, MDS reorganised
 into an 8-Institute structure to reflect its key research priorities. Most disciplines are
 mature; Pharmacy is the only new area that we are submitting compared to previous
 REF/RAE exercises.

 As a measure of research volume, UoB’s annual number of research publications
 increased from 4,799 in 2014 to 5,734 in 2019 (Section 2), while our research income has
 increased from £112m to £151m (Section 4).

 The University is located within the West Midlands, population 5.6m. The city of
 Birmingham, population 1.08m, has greater economic inequality than any other British city
 and high ethnic diversity (53% White British). The University engages with the city and
 region across the full breadth of our research portfolio, from health and environment, to
 energy, transport and leadership.

 Our Dubai campus opened in 2017 (target 2,940 students by 2028) and a research stream
 is being developed - including recent funding from UAE Education Ministry. We also have
 strategic research partnerships and collaborations in Europe, India, China, Brazil, USA
 and Australia.
 2. Strategy

 2.1 Strategic Goals for Research and Impact
 The goals and actions for research and impact specified in our Strategic Framework 2015-
 2020 are to:

 2.1.1 ‘Enhance the quality and reach of our research’
 Investment in academic staff has been key:
     Recruitment to Research Fellowships to build critical mass (3.4.1)
     Launch of a Research Leaders’ Programme, supporting selected mid-career
       academic staff to progress (3.4.4)
     Local (UoA-level) support to build an enhanced research culture ‘that stimulates,
       nurtures and engenders drive, confidence and ambition’
     Measures to enhance interdisciplinary collaboration and external partnership (2.3)

                                                                                      Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research publications data indicate an increase in quality, disciplinary breadth and reach
 over the REF period, with significant increases in publication with international partners.

                           Table 1: Publications Data (SciVal 2020)
  Measure               2014    2015     2016      2017     2018      2019    % change
                                                                                since
                                                                                2014
  Volume:               4,801   4,887   5,235      5,428   5,600      5,734    19.4%
  Scholarly output
  Breadth:              89.5%   92.8%   92.2%      91.9%   91.9%      93.7%     4.7%
  Subject areas
  covered
  Breadth:              6.3%    6.4%     6.5%      6.2%     6.1%      6.2%      -1.6%
  Academic-
  Corporate
  Collaboration
  Breadth:              48.8%   50.3%   51.7%      50.6%   55.6%      56.9%     16.6%
  International
  Collaboration
  Impact: Outputs       22.2%   22.9%   23.6%      21.4%   23.2%      24.2%     9.0%
  in Top 10%
  citation Percentile


 2.1.2 ‘Invest strategically to create and strengthen areas of excellence’
 Through our Dynamic Infrastructure Fund, we have invested strategically (ca. £30m) in 20
 key research areas, including Gravitational Waves, Regional Economic Development,
 Human Brain Health, Quantum Technologies, Biomedical Imaging, Modern History,
 Thermal Energy, Superdiversity, Security. The University’s Foresight and Strategic
 Research Themes Group comprises members from a range of sectors and backgrounds,
 providing external context, advice and advocacy to steer investment and shape major
 funding bids. Strategic research partnerships in US, China, India, Australia, Europe have
 been built around key research areas, and we have implemented a £500m capital
 programme for research infrastructure focussing on them (4.2). These key areas have
 generated over £300m in new research awards in the REF period. The Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize awarded to our Centre for Rail Research and Education exemplifies
 external recognition of our strengths.

 2.1.3 ‘Expand the impact of our research’
     We have invested, and leveraged investment, in facilities that enable external
       engagement and impact (4.3) and in teams supporting intellectual property
       development (UoB Enterprise), business engagement, research impact and public
       engagement.
     The Industry Professorial Fellows scheme (3.4.1) was established to stimulate and
       link basic research to translation.
     Impact culture has been strengthened by training the next generation via ECR
       networks (3.3) and the ‘Medici’ academic entrepreneurship programme; increasing
       the number of School-level industry advisory groups; embedding impact in
       recognition and reward (3.4.6); initiating annual University Prizes and a central fund
       for impact; encouraging leadership through School and College Impact Leads, and

                                                                                        Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
         appointing a DPVC (Research Impact) and a DPVC (Regional Engagement);
         communicating impact through e.g., the ‘Birmingham Heroes campaigns’ in
         2018/19, including features at Euston Station.
        We developed key external partnerships to enable impact, e.g. establishing
         Birmingham Health Partners (BHP), an alliance between UoB and two NHS
         Foundation Trusts bringing healthcare innovations to clinical application at pace
         and scale; sponsoring CBI annual conference in 2017, 2018; Membership of
         Business in the Community network.
 Two success indicators have been the growth of new research awards from industry (£6m
 in 2015-16 to £24m in 2019-20), and the growth of the University’s HEIF allocation
 (determined by metrics including IP income, business, consultancy, regeneration, SME
 support).

 2.1.4 ‘Increase levels of external investment in our research and our share of
       competitively-won research income’
 In 2016 we set ambitious 10-year targets for 10% annual research-income growth (to
 £300m by 2026); new research awards have grown by an average of 12% a year since
 2015 (4.1.1).

 2.1.5 ‘Work with other universities to increase influence and impact’
 We are founder members of Midlands Innovation (MI), a collaborative network of eight
 research-intensive universities. Two key MI projects led by UoB are the £5m
 Commercialisation of Research Accelerator (MICRA), funded by Research England; and
 the Energy Research Accelerator (ERA) research hub, (Director: Freer, UoB), with
 ~£180m of Innovate UK, University and industry funding. Since 2018, MICRA has trained
 1,200 academics and leveraged £65m of additional funding across the eight universities,
 while ERA has created 23 major new research and innovation facilities in energy
 technologies across the network.

 Through our strategic partnership with Nottingham University, we jointly invested £10m in
 ‘COMPARE’ (2016-21), assembling leading researchers and facilities to develop novel
 methods for visualising single membrane proteins, with application to prevention and
 treatment of cardiovascular disease and cancer. We are partners of the Turing Institute
 (since 2018), Faraday Institution, and Rosalind Franklin Institute, working with leading
 universities to advance data science, electrochemical energy storage and life sciences
 technologies.

 2.1.6   ‘Develop strategic partnerships with business, public sector and third sector
         organisations’
 We have received major ISCF awards to address national priorities with industry partners
 in, e.g., robotics and batteries, and established new national facilities including the
 National Buried Infrastructure Facility and the Centre of Excellence in Digital Rail Systems
 (Section 4). The Birmingham Stories National Literacy Hub is a collaborative initiative with
 the National Literacy Trust (their first hub partnering a university) aiming to improve
 literacy among KS3 students and adults by embedding UoB research into the NLT’s
 programs and interventions.

 2.1.7 ‘Collaborate to shape priorities and activities to increase opportunity and
        well-being in the region’
 Strong links are established with the West Midlands Combined Authority (WMCA) through
 our joint WM-REDI economic development institute (£4.9m from Research England’s
 Development Fund), and through membership of the WMCA Innovation Board; and the
                                                                                       Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Royal Shakespeare Company through our Shakespeare Institute at Stratford. We have
 secured £30.2m ERDF funds to work on R&D challenges involving approximately 1,500
 SMEs across Energy, Rail, Manufacturing, Quantum Technology, Materials and Health
 Technologies, and a further £7m from the LEP’s Local Growth Fund to establish the
 Birmingham Energy Innovation Centre. Located in Tyseley Energy Park, the centre will
 demonstrate new low-carbon technologies, contributing to Birmingham’s reduced CO 2
 targets by 2030.

 2.1.8 ‘Strengthen relationships with key international partners and foster new ones
        to enhance reach and relevance globally’
 We have established secure, long-term, strategic relationships globally for research
 collaboration and influence:
      University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign: Our BRIDGE partnership involves 80
        academics across all five UoB Colleges. Research collaboration has led to
        increasing output of jointly authored papers: 142 in 2017 (FWCI of 6.43). Five three-
        year BRIDGE research fellows have completed their fellowship and transferred into
        academic positions. (3.4.1).
      University of Melbourne: Over 50 active research links across all disciplines, and
        the £2m Priestley Joint PhD Scholarships programme for life sciences and
        engineering, established 2016. 199 jointly-authored papers were published in
        2019, FWCI of 8.01.
 To secure strong relationships in Europe, post-Brexit, we have signed strategic
 partnerships with Trinity College Dublin (bio-engineering, digital humanities and clinical
 trials) and University of Amsterdam, the latter to share best practice in equality, diversity
 and inclusion. The launch of the European consortium EUniWell in 2019 involving UoB
 has resulted in a €5m Erasmus+ award to support wellbeing-related collaboration.

 Our China Institute has facilitated new partnership development, including a ¥6m
 microparticles initiative with Jiangsu Industry Technology Research, and increased
 collaborations leveraged through bases in Guangzhou and Nanjing, with enhanced
 outputs and grant capture. Our India Institute has improved visibility and profile,
 significantly increasing joint publications with Indian partners in the top 10% of highly-cited
 outputs, and stimulating greater grant capture and formal agreements to develop major
 collaborations, notably with Haryana State Government. Our 10-year engagement in
 Brazil has yielded resilient, impactful partnerships, notably through the UoB-FAPESP fund
 that created a pipeline for external grants, including a £2M MRC/Newton/FAPESP award
 for the UK-Brazil Joint Centre for Arbovirus with Sao Paulo University. A strategic
 partnership with Waseda University in Japan features collaboration from Shakespeare to
 Robotics.

 2.2 Research Integrity and Open Research
 We are committed to maintaining high standards of scholarly and scientific integrity in our
 research, with policy development led by the Research, Governance, Ethics and Integrity
 Committee, chaired by the PVC (R&KT), and supported by the RGEI office (8 FTE). We
 adhere to the 5 commitments of the UK National Concordat, setting expectations and a
 governance framework in our Code of Practice for Research. We publish an annual
 Research Integrity Statement outlining our processes, and integrity features in PGR
 courses and staff inductions, including bespoke discipline-based activities and online
 training for researchers and distance learners. The Clinical Research Compliance Team
 (6.4 FTE) delivers proactive, expert support for research involving human participants that
 is subject to external regulatory standards, ensuring responsibilities under the UK Policy


                                                                                          Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Framework for Health and Social Care Research are undertaken effectively and efficiently
 with appropriate ethical review.
 We are increasingly prioritising Open Research (OR), which in turn facilitates testing of
 reproducibility, and are a signatory of DORA. The Open Research Board focuses on
 developing initiatives beyond compliance to reap the benefits of OR.

 The Scholarly Communications team supports our open data repository (4.5) accessed
 via the Pure CRIS system, manages the University’s Gold Open Access funds and
 provides guidance on Green Open Access. The Library Research Support Team runs
 workshops and online courses on OR, and when negotiating journal subscriptions, we
 prioritise Open Access provisions within licence agreements.

 2.3 Interdisciplinary research
 2.3.1 We aim to support, recognise and reward interdisciplinary research. The Institute
 for Advanced Studies (IAS) and Institute for Global Innovation (IGI) together provide a
 framework for developing interdisciplinary research from idea generation to securing
 funding and output production. Additionally, there are numerous interdisciplinary centres
 (see research centres) at local level.

 2.3.2 The IAS facilitates ‘bottom-up’ interdisciplinary networking through workshops and
 talks, international visiting fellowships, funding and engagement with end users. Support
 from IAS led to the development of the Institute for Mental Health, National Centre for
 Nuclear Robotics and the Centre for Human Brain Health.

 2.3.3 The IGI, launched in 2018, takes a challenge-led, mission-driven approach to
 interdisciplinary research, aiming to inspire, facilitate and deliver research addressing
 pressing global challenges. Harnessing the breadth of UoB research, it has raised nearly
 £20m in research funding, including £5.7m from the GCRF, and promotes four main
 themes: Gender Inequality, Resilient Cities, Water Challenges and Transnational Crime,
 alongside emerging themes. The IGI enables scholars from multiple disciplines, financially
 and logistically, to generate holistic responses to challenges and connect with scholars
 and stakeholders in LMICs, ensuring diverse global perspectives are incorporated into our
 research culture.

 2.4 New Strategic Framework
 Building on the success of the last 5 years, our draft Strategic Framework (2021-2025),
 sets 4 key research goals:
    1. Identify, review and invest in key research strengths: initiate a robust review
        (with international input) of research strengths, and 5-year plans to develop 30-40
        such areas; build strategic partnerships with other HEIs, nationally and
        internationally, around these strengths.
    2. Reduce barriers to interdisciplinary working: establish the Interdisciplinary
        Data Sciences Institute; joint supervision of PhDs across disciplines; digital
        networking of researchers across UoB.
    3. Embed impact in our research: review our assets – facilities, expertise, support
        teams – to maximise benefit; develop a culture of enterprise and innovation
        supported by an ‘ideas factory’; maximise public engagement opportunities of our
        city-centre hub, ‘The Exchange’ (4.2.2).
    4. Continue to enhance our research culture and address EDI issues: develop
        new academic-staff-development programmes; new research-integrity strategy;
        new university-wide academy to support ECRs.



                                                                                     Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We will ensure professional support and infrastructure underpin these priorities, with
 emphasis on co-ordination across professional services.
 3. People

 3.1 Strategy
 We aspire to be a destination of choice for the best researchers – from postgraduates to
 professors. People and Culture is a theme in our new Strategic Framework, and places
 value on those who are at the heart of what we do. Our ambition is to continue developing
 a vibrant research culture that stimulates and nurtures, is inclusive, equal and diverse,
 and recognises the importance of staff development from recruitment and induction
 through to support, progression and retention.

 3.2 Postgraduate researchers
 With nearly 4,000 postgraduate researchers (PGR) (30% international), including 440
 visiting students, we focus on creating a supportive infrastructure and a high-quality
 student experience. The Postgraduate Dean (position established 2018) develops
 strategy and leads enhancements of the offering for all postgraduate students, supported
 by a Director of Postgraduate Research. UoB commits to welcoming all postgraduates
 into our vibrant and supportive research culture through our Postgraduate Guarantee. The
 Westmere Hub, run by the University Graduate School (UGS), opened in 2015, providing
 a training and social space for all PGR students. The Hub hosts training to support PGRs’
 development across the Researcher Development Framework (e.g., academic skills,
 entrepreneurship, career management), whilst high-profile annual events disseminate
 PGR research widely within the University (Research Poster Conference, Images of
 Research, Three Minute Thesis). A cross-institutional community is facilitated by the PGR-
 led activities fund, and five PGRs are appointed as Westmere Scholars to support peer-
 led community building and researcher-development activities within the Hub, with key
 themes including wellbeing and inclusivity.

 The UGS manages the PGR Annual Review process and leads quality assurance projects
 to understand the PGR experience and tackle any issues. This includes face-to-face
 training for new PGR supervisors (and those new to the University) and conducting
 surveys (e.g., Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, PGR Exit survey) to collect
 initial destinations data and details of PGR alumni to facilitate future career
 talks/mentoring.

 Annually, we spend approximately £10m on PhD scholarships distributed by the Colleges,
 and have offered 10-15 Global Challenges PhD scholarships annually since 2016 with
 cross-College supervision.

 3.3 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 The University is committed to enhancing the development and careers of ECRs. A
 major route to achieving this is the Postdoctoral / Early-Researcher Career
 Development and Training (PERCAT) scheme for STEM Colleges and the Early
 Career and Research Staff Committee (ECARS) for non-STEM Colleges. With senior
 academic and ECR representation from Colleges, these tailor personal and career
 development to disciplinary needs. Regular activities developed by ECRs include
 seminars, training, research-funding and Fellowships workshops. We aim to foster a
 collective identity for ECRs, ensuring the postdoctoral voice is represented in
 formulating College strategy. These groups, in turn, feed into the University-level
 Researcher Development Steering Group, comprising senior academic and ECR
 representation from all Colleges and reporting directly to Research Committee.


                                                                                     Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Our European HR Excellence in Research Award was renewed in 2016 and 2020,
 recognising the work we do to support ECRs. We have conducted a gap analysis
 against the principles of the New Concordat leading to an action plan that also
 underpins our HR Excellence in Research actions. The ECR work-stream of the
 Birmingham Academic Career Framework project has embraced the Concordat principles
 and is recommending their adoption through a guidance code for research leaders. The
 Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS) and the PIs and Research Leaders
 Survey (PIRLS) are conducted biennially and an ensuing action plan is agreed. In 2019
 we received positive (higher than national) responses, for ECRs feeling valued in
 publications, funding applications, and public engagement. The University supports the
 National Postdoc Appreciation Week.

 3.4 Academic Staff (Teaching and Research)
 3.4.1 Recruitment strategy
 The University has expanded REF-submitted staff FTE, from 1,141 (REF 2014) to 1,560
 (REF 2021), via a sustained academic staff recruitment drive - at junior levels to grow
 careers, and senior levels to provide research leadership. Research-only staff numbers
 have also grown from 899 to 1,114 in the period, with staff originating from 78 countries.
 This recruitment, including the fellowship schemes given in Table 2, has selectively
 enhanced research strengths and critical mass in areas including Corpus Linguistics,
 Biomedical Imaging and Mathematical Biology.

                                Table 2: Fellowship schemes
      Scheme          Number recruited in REF                     Description
                              Period
    Birmingham                  90                    attracts early-career independent
      Fellows                                          researchers to conduct original high-
                                                       quality research
                                                      five years protected research time
                                                      Fellows graduate to Lecturer/Senior
                                                       Lecturer at the end
  BRIDGE Fellows                5                     novel variation of Birmingham Fellows
                                                       scheme including provision to spend one
                                                       year at University of Illinois developing
                                                       research collaborations
    Professorial                23                    targeted at mid-career academics on a
     Research                                          steep upward research trajectory
    Fellowships                                       three years protected research time

      Industry                  2                     targeted at individuals in industry or
    Professorial                                       working     at   the    industry-university
      Fellows                                          interface
                                                      supports transition to academic sector to
                                                       drive     industry-university     research
                                                       collaborations

  Interdisciplinary             4                     targeted at individuals in established
     Professors                                        Chair positions
                                                      expected to lead and develop significant
                                                       interdisciplinary research spanning two or
                                                       more Schools, e.g., Computer Science
                                                       and Law




                                                                                          Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.4.2 Staff Inductions
 Central Inductions for new staff provide an overview of the University’s priorities and
 academic environment, and are delivered simultaneously to academic and professional
 services staff to encourage collaboration. Mandatory online training for new starters
 includes Equality and Diversity and Health and Safety.

 3.4.3 PDRs and Study Leave
 New academic staff have a probationary personal development planning (PPDP) period,
 and are allocated a PPDP mentor to help develop their initial academic objectives with
 their Head of School. Performance and Development Reviews (PDRs) are conducted
 annually and managed locally by Colleges and Schools. The University’s HR Excellence
 Award action plan shows our commitment to a consistent approach to PDRs, recognising
 their centrality to career development, particularly for those from less represented
 backgrounds. Academic staff are entitled to apply for study leave (up to 1 semester per 7,
 with an enhanced scheme in CAL), an opportunity to develop research activities and for
 personal development.

 3.4.4 Training and Development
 A suite of leadership training courses is tailored to all academic career stages. This
 includes teaching ECRs to understand core leadership and management skills, and a
 Senior Leaders Programme for staff taking up greater formal leadership and managerial
 roles (e.g., College Director of Research), incorporating sessions on ED&I and ‘leading in
 a diverse context’. The Research Leaders Programme, introduced 2016, offers mid-career
 academic staff training and support to lead large research programmes with multi-
 disciplinary collaborations (90 academic attendees to date).

 The Aurora Leadership Programme, completed by 100 early-career female academics
 and new senior leaders, aims to develop skills and confidence to negotiate careers and
 build networks. The Aditi Leadership Programme for BAME academic and academic-
 related staff, completed by 58 colleagues, helps identify and address the barriers
 colleagues may face.

 Our University-wide ‘Developing as a Researcher’ courses for all career stages include
 career planning, encouraging research integrity, grant writing sessions hosted by external
 academics and Journal Article writing. Our ‘Influential Researcher’ workshops focus on
 reaching audience and raising research profile, including sessions on collaboration and
 wellbeing.

 3.4.5 Staff Support
 The wellbeing of staff is central to creating an inclusive, thriving research environment.
 The Workplace Wellbeing team provides an Employee Advice and Listening Service to
 support staff in making informed decisions about work and personal issues, an Employee
 Disability Service offering practical guidance for disabled staff, and an Occupational
 Health Service to advise staff about how health (e.g., return to work after sickness) may
 affect work. Cross-University teams collaborate annually to provide a week of wellbeing-
 related activities, such as ‘The Happiness Workshop’, for academics. Additionally, we host
 a staff-wellbeing conference with Nottingham University; in 2019, over 30 HR practitioners
 and researchers from across the Midlands looked at how wellbeing initiatives work.

 In 2016, we created a DPVC (ED&I) role to provide leadership and drive progress on ED&I
 issues, and a network of College Equality Leads to support and embed change using
 local, subject-specific approaches. The central Equality Team oversees implementation

                                                                                     Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of ED&I strategy and inter alia provides ED&I information to support research funding bids,
 including participation of University academics in equality events. An important
 contribution is to support academic staff (particularly women) to use techniques to combat
 ‘trolling’.

 Supported by an EPSRC "Inclusion Matters" award, we are conducting rigorous research
 into bias in making judgements of academic quality, and evaluating the effectiveness of
 trial interventions, such as ‘reverse mentoring’. Our staff networks are increasingly
 recognised as models of sector best practice, and include thriving LGBTQ+, BAME,
 Enabling, Women’s, and Parents’ and Carers’ networks, to ensure staff from under-
 represented groups are supported and visible. They work together to host ‘Branching Out’
 events across campus, recognising intersectionality in the ED&I agenda.

 Our successful 2019 Athena Swan Bronze-level award application demonstrated that our
 focus on developing female colleagues – through the introduction of institutional targets
 and recent promotions and recruitment activities - has significantly improved the
 proportion of senior female staff:

                     Table 3: percentage senior female academic staff
                       2014                 2020                Target
  Professors           20                   28                  30
  Grade 9              27                   34                  30

 The University received a bronze-level award under the Race Equality Charter (REC)
 scheme in 2020. Analysis of staff data indicates issues in the recruitment and progression
 of some groups of BAME academic and Professional Services staff. A key initiative is
 delivering ‘Talking Confidently About Race’ workshops to all senior management teams,
 focussing on identifying and addressing bias, micro-aggressions, institutional racism and
 white privilege. We have also introduced institutional targets for BAME staff representation
 at each grade.

 We engage with the Stonewall Workplace Index, aiming to enter the Top 100 Employers’
 Index as a demonstrable sign of commitment to LGBTQ+ issues. We launched an
 LGBTQ+ Allies Scheme, open to all staff. In 2020, UoB hosted the LGBTQ+ STEMinar,
 an annual UK research conference celebrating the work of STEM researchers who identify
 as LGBTQ+.

 All staff can request a flexible working pattern. Academic staff on research and teaching
 contracts returning from maternity, adoption or Shared Parental Leave are entitled to one
 term’s respite from teaching or administration duties to enable them to focus on research.

 3.4.6 Promotions, Reward & Recognition
 A focus in the REF period has been on embedding reward and recognition of Research
 Impact in processes at every career stage, including recruitment, PDR, and as a prioritised
 criterion in promotion. We have committed to valuing and rewarding impact in its broadest
 sense, appointing or promoting a number of Chairs in direct recognition of their excellence
 in Impact.
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1 Research Awards
 Our strategic goal is to increase research awards and income by 10% per annum from
 2016 to 2026 to enhance the volume, quality and impact of our research. Table 3 shows

                                                                                       Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 a steady increase in income and awards over the second half of the REF period, on track
 to reach our 2026 goal.

                Table 4: Research Awards and Total Research Income (HESA)
               2013-14 2014-15       2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20
  Awards
                123,573 143,683 136,948 170,197            204,300   215,475      220,343
  (£000s)
  Total
  Research
                111,769 126,395 135,465 124,031            134,237   150,620      140,266*
  Income
  (£000s)
 *(including - £11m ‘COVID accounting adjustment’)

 To achieve such increases, we have expanded our research support ecosystem.
 Research Development teams (42.8FTE) are embedded in each of the Colleges,
 providing discipline-specific advice to PIs preparing funding bids. Central teams provide
 support for EU/International funding, engagement with industry/charity funders, grant set-
 up and post-award support. Our Business Engagement team, increased from 9 to 21 FTE
 since 2014, develops strategic academic-industry partnerships and has helped to
 increase industry research grants by over 200% between 2014 and 2020. Our Research
 Planning Team provides institutional support and guidance and training in Impact and
 REF, Open Access and Research information.

 We support PIs to develop applications for multimillion-pound complex research and
 innovation projects (e.g., RPIF, ISCF, ESIF) through the Strategic Research Development
 team, typically co-ordinating a range of external partners/stakeholders and internal
 academic and professional services teams across the University. The Development and
 Alumni Relations Office encourages philanthropic support for research projects, including
 from Trusts and Foundations; the Birmingham in Action campaign, launched 2019, set
 stretching targets for philanthropic research awards to help tackle global challenges, such
 as youth mental health.

 University of Birmingham Enterprise supports academics to take ideas to market, creating
 new businesses and social enterprises, providing enterprise training, access to
 investment, office and laboratory space and a full ‘Knowledge Exchange’ service. In
 2019-20, 63% of researchers used these services.

 Our research communications team has recently prioritised examples of research impact:
 53 impact cases were supported with communications and policy activity across the
 Colleges and 41 through high-profile Heroes and Quest campaigns. These campaigns
 feature diverse academics in terms of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and career
 stage, creating visible role models.

 4.2 Major Capital Investment
 In this REF period, we have invested substantial capital and leveraged external
 investment, in physical assets that provide a world-class environment for research and
 extend the breadth and depth of knowledge exchange and impact.

 4.2.1 Core research facilities
 Investments in the core research and education environment since 2014 include the
 £25.9m Business School Extension (opened 2019), a £83.7m new building for
 Engineering (2021), £ 16.3m refurbishment for Law/Music, £22.6m investment in the

                                                                                     Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 School of Psychology, new £80m Molecular Sciences building (2023) as a principal
 research space for Chemistry and Environmental Sciences, and a £59.2m new Main
 Library (2016).

 4.2.2 Knowledge Exchange investments
 To enhance the University’s external engagement, knowledge exchange and impact
 strategy we have invested in:
                             Table 5: Knowledge Exchange Investments

      Building            Investment (£)                           Purpose

  The     Exchange            40.2m              hub to bring local partners and community
  (Opening 2021)                                  together to shape and transform the region,
                                                  deliver public engagement programmes
                                                 housing the new RED-funded regional economic
                                                  development institute, WM-REDI.



  Edgbaston   Park            40.9m              hosts research conferences, and knowledge
  Hotel        and                                exchange activities e.g., the 2019 Quantum
  Conference Centre                               Technologies Hub Phase 2 launch, involving
                                                  national and international academics and
                                                  companies

  University        of    22.6m (20m from        the only UK-university-owned comprehensive
  Birmingham             DoE)                     school; engages strongly with university
  School                                          researchers, including the Jubilee Centre for
                                                  Character and Virtues and School of Education

  Birmingham                   15m               harnessing academic and clinical partnerships
  Health Innovation                               establishing West Midlands as a leader in Life
  Campus (Opening                                 Sciences R&D
  2023)                                          bringing together our research expertise in health
                                                  data, medical technologies and clinical trials with
                                                  NHS and industry partners

  Tyseley       Energy         3m                working with the Birmingham City Council, LEP
  Park                                            and WMCA to deliver large-scale sustainable
                                                  solutions for energy, waste and transport for the
                                                  city, including an innovation hub with £7m of LEP
                                                  funding

  IGI    and      IAS         995k               newly-refurbished        building on campus,
  (Section 2)                                     facilitating Global Challenges research and
                                                  interdisciplinary dialogue across Colleges and
                                                  disciplines


 4.2.3 Strategic research and innovation themes
 Capital investments (£47m UoB, £136m external) to support specific research and
 innovation themes include:




                                                                                            Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                                    Table 6: Capital Investments

        Building             Investment                            Purpose
                                 (£)

   Centre for Human             9.9m              a new-build housing functional magnetic
  Brain Health (CHBH)                              imaging (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography
                                                   (MEG) scanners

    Digital Systems         18.6m (14.325         part of Birmingham-led UK Railway Research
   Integration Centre         UKRPIF)              and Innovation Network

     National Buried        27.6m (21.6m          unique facility for research/training in buried
  Infrastructure Facility     EPSRC)               infrastructure-ground interaction, soil
                                                   stabilisation and improvement, geophysical
                                                   sensing, and trenchless technologies; part of
                                                   the UKCRIC national programme

      Birmingham             3.116m (1m           refurbishment of glasshouse, providing a
     Environmental             Wolfson)            controlled environment for plant sciences
    Research Facility                              where conditions (eg CO2 and pathogen
                                                   levels) can be manipulated

    Free Air Carbon          15.7m (15m           assesses the impact of rising CO2 levels on
   Enrichment (2018)           JABBS)              whole forest ecosystems - the second such
                                                   facility worldwide, unique in Northern
                                                   Hemisphere
                                                  Part of Birmingham Institute of Forest
                                                   Research providing a step-change in UK
                                                   interdisciplinary forest research

       Institute of             24m               promotes NHS-industry-academia interactions,
      Translational                                accelerating development of healthcare
        Medicine                                   innovations
                                                  houses the £7m Healthcare Technologies
                                                   Institute within a Class 2 containment area,
                                                   equipped with the latest electro-mechanical
                                                   testing machines for evaluating surgical
                                                   implants, enabling work with surgeons and the
                                                   healthcare industry
   High Temperature          60m (20m             joint with Rolls-Royce; the unique processing
   Research Centre          UKRPIF; 40m            capability for investment casting of aeroengine
                               RR)                 components, and design and simulation for
                                                   advanced manufacturing, enables production-
                                                   scale research delivering rapid high-quality
                                                   product and process innovation


 4.3 Libraries and museums
 Our libraries are key to supporting research, holding over 1.8 million print and 500,000
 online books, and over 85,000 print and online journals. The Library Research Suite
 includes a reserve amassing stock from previously disparate stores in a controlled
 environment. The Cadbury Research Library houses extensive special collections with
 rare books and manuscripts dating back to 1471, including 120,000 books and 3 million
 manuscripts available to researchers.



                                                                                             Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Our Research and Cultural Collections, one of the most varied University offerings in the
 UK, incorporates the Danford Collection of West African Art and Artefacts, the
 Archaeology Museum, the Historic Physics Instruments, the Historic Medical Artefacts and
 a Fine Art Collection (including outdoor sculpture). The Barber Institute of Fine Art holds
 one of the most outstanding and internationally-significant collections of Western Art
 assembled in the UK in the 20th Century.

 Our Lapworth Museum of Geology (reopened 2016 following an award-winning £2.5m
 redevelopment) has >60,000 visitors/year. Designated as ‘outstanding’ by Arts Council
 England (ACE) and an ACE National Portfolio Organisation, it was shortlisted for Art Fund
 Museum of the Year 2017. This outstanding venue for researchers to engage the public
 houses around 300,000 internationally-renowned objects.

 4.4 Enabling Technologies
 We have invested £7.8m in our Enabling Technologies function during the REF period,
 providing a sustainable equipment base and technical expertise in key life-sciences areas
 such as Sequencing, Mass Spectrometry, Cell Sorting, Fluorescent Imaging, NMR, and
 Computational Biology, and a platform for engaging external users.

 We provide match funding for equipment bids to research councils and other funders
 through a central fund, and made a one-off investment of £10m in 2016-17 to upgrade
 research equipment, principally in STEM disciplines. Our PVC (R&KT) established and
 chaired the Midlands Innovation Research Efficiency Group (2016-2018), developing
 policy and mechanisms for sharing facilities and equipment across the Midlands.

 National-level facilities include the Henry Wellcome Building for Nuclear Magnetic
 Resonance, a £16m resource on campus providing access to six high-field NMR
 spectrometers, with funding competitively won from Wellcome and EPSRC. The UK’s only
 1 GHz liquid-phase spectrometer was delivered in 2020, providing scientists with insights
 into the molecular basis of human health, cancer progression and infectious diseases.
 Phenome Centre Birmingham, developed through an £8m MRC award and four scientific
 instrument companies, is a state-of-the-art metabolic phenotyping centre conducting small
 and large-scale studies in medical research and stratified medicine, from conception and
 experimental design through data acquisition and analysis, and biological interpretation.

 The University uses external facilities to enable research and impact that cannot be
 conducted on campus. A 10-year agreement with Diamond Light Source includes lead
 responsibility for beamline I18 designed for corrosion studies. The US-based Laser
 Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO), is used by our Institute for
 Gravitational Wave Astronomy.

 Our 300+ technical staff play a critical role in enabling researchers to deliver cutting-edge
 research. As a signatory of the national Technician Commitment we support the visibility,
 recognition, career development and sustainability of the technician community and in
 2017 launched our Technical Academy to implement this commitment.

 4.5 Research Computing
 The Birmingham Environment for Academic Research (BEAR) supports researchers with
 high-performance computing and data storage facilities and expertise. Key services
 include BlueBEAR, a Linux-based, batch-processing HPC Cluster and BEAR AI, the
 largest IBM AI cluster in the UK. The Research Software Engineers team (3 FTE) has
 delivered ‘Software Carpentry’ since 2018, supporting researchers in delivering quality,

                                                                                       Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 reproducible research through the adoption of accepted good practice. In 2018, we
 opened a £6m research data centre to meet the demands of a high power, dense
 research-computing infrastructure.

 Our Open-Data strategy is supported by UBIRA ePrints, which currently contains 174 data
 set records, 94% openly accessible and 160 published in the REF period. The Library’s
 e-thesis repository contains 7,703 theses (3924 in REF period, 86% open access) with
 7.5 million downloads to date.




                                                                                 Page 14
