Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: Aston University

         1. Context and mission
 1.1 Founded in 1895 as the Birmingham Municipal Technical School, Aston evolved into the
     UK’s first College of Advanced Technology in 1956, and became a University in 1966.
     Today, we are a ‘dual intensive’ University, which values excellence in education and
     research equally. Aston University’s mission is to deliver for its beneficiaries (Figure 1):
   i.       Students – through research led pedagogy and training work-ready graduates (70% of
            students participate in an Integrated Placement Year).
   ii.      Business, Professions, and Public Sector – through collaborative research with practical
            outcomes for partner organisations (e.g., BT, GW Pharmaceuticals, Thales, Defence
            Science Technology Laboratory, West Midlands Police and Public Health England).
  iii.      Region and Society – through informing policy and public debate, increasing the
            knowledge base (e.g., West Midlands Combined Authority, Greater Birmingham
            Chambers of Commerce, or Birmingham Women’s and Children’s Hospital).




 With that ‘beneficiaries approach’ at its core, the Aston Strategy 2018-2023 is innovative in its
 focus on impactful research, student placements, graduate job pathways and CPD programmes.

 Growth of the Institution

 1.2 The Aston Strategy 2018-2023 explicitly recognises the importance of attracting, retaining,
 and supporting high quality staff; our recruitment processes ensure that candidates career aims
 closely align with our strategic objectives. In 2019, 68% of Aston students and 25% of academic
 staff identified as Black, Asian or Minority Ethnic. The University is committed to increasing the
 representation of minority groups amongst all staff and students and The Guardian named Aston
 University of the Year 2020 in recognition of this commitment and our track record. Aston is
 aware of the difference between the composition of our staff and student populations: we have
 committed to the Race Equality Charter and are developing an application for a Bronze award
 during 2021-22. The University has formed two new working groups, one looking at ways to
 support Black students and staff, and one tasked with making Aston’s curriculum more inclusive.

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 1.3 Since REF2014, Aston has grown substantially:
     i.      Turnover has increased from £117m in 2012/13 to £165m in 2019/20;
    ii.      Student FTE has grown by 46% between July 2013 and July 2020 (Table 1);

                  Table 1: Growth of Aston University Student Community (HESA, FTE)
                                    2012/13                          2019/20

  Undergraduate                     7,502.14                         11,488.32

  PGT                               1,118.96                         1,553.68

  PGR                               302.07                           302.84

  Total                             8,923.17                         13,344.84


    iii.     Academic FTE has grown by 66% between 2013 and 2020 (Table 2), based on a
             snapshot of contractual data taken annually from our HR system on 31 July. This
             growth has delivered a marked improvement to our SSR, and by increasing the number
             of T&R and Teaching-only staff, we have protected the research time of those with
             Significant Responsibility for Research. The FTE returned to REF has increased from
             199.43 in 2014, to 435.76 in 2021.

           Table 2: Growth of the Aston University Academic Community (FTE) 2013-2020
                                                             31/07/2013          31/07/2020
  Academic: Teaching and Research                            308.45              406.94

  Academic: Research Only                                    122.68              172.15

  Academic: Teaching Only                                    73.18               258.03

  Academic: Leadership                                       0                   2

  Total Academic                                             504.31              839.12


    iv.      Central research support capacity in the Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE)
             Department (section 4.4) has increased to 56 individuals. RKE now includes the Aston
             Graduate School (section 3.15-3.19) and the Early Career Researcher Forum (section
             3.13-3.14).

 Aston and the Midlands

 1.4 Aston University is a critical part of the regional economy. Table 3 details Aston’s economic
 impact on the region (Metro Dynamics, 2019). Aston Business School’s bespoke programmes
 provide local businesses with clear and cutting-edge information on how to improve
 performance. Since 2014, 92% of businesses on the Small Business Growth Programme gained
 confidence to grow their business, 88% increased their business skills, and three in five
 companies expect turnover growth in excess of 200%. In addition, Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (KTPs) working with Aston received an average 1107% return-on-investment from
 the initial grants provided through KTPs (applied research projects launched in collaboration with
 local businesses). With 75% of our KTPs awarded to SMEs, Aston explicitly works with the
 region’s smaller companies.



                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

              Table 3: Aston University Economic Output 2017/18                    Amount (£m)
  Core Operations                                                                  274.8
  Research & Innovation                                                            68.3
  Teaching                                                                         397.7
  Students Expenditure                                                             264.4
  Placements                                                                       25.2
  Total                                                                            1030.4

 1.5 Aston is a member of Midlands Innovation (MI), eight research-intensive institutions to
 driving cutting-edge research, innovation, and skills-development. MI partners have generated
 £10bn in Gross Value Added, supporting 95,000 jobs in the region. Aston works closely with
 regional industrial partners and has a well-earned reputation for supporting and working with
 high growth smaller technology businesses. Aston is part of a number of strategically important
 MI initiatives:
    i.    Midlands Engine for Growth (ME4G) aims to raise the long-term economic growth rate of
          the region, enhance job creation and add £34bn to the Midlands economy by 2030;
   ii.    In partnership with two other HEIs, Aston launched an angel investment network,
          Minerva Birmingham, in 2019;
  iii.    £1.5m investment in the Energy and Bioproducts Research Institute (EBRI) through the
          Energy Research Accelerator;
  iv.     The Connecting Capabilities funded MI Commercialisation of Research Accelerator
          (MICRA) providing training for academics and revenue streams to help expedite the
          translation of research to solutions, marketable products and services;
   v.     The Research England Development funded West Midlands Regional Economic
          Development Institute, which supports inclusive economic growth in the West Midlands;
  vi.     Collaboration in shared funding applications for advanced equipment such as the £3.2m
          High-Performance Computing Midlands Plus (2017);
  vii.    £3m awarded by Research England (total investment £5m) in 2020 for ‘TALENT’ to
          develop skills and opportunities for technicians in higher education, reinforcing Aston’s
          support for the Technician Commitment.
 1.6 Aston is committed to increasing access to Higher Education while adding value and
 improving employability for its students. Aston’s student recruitment reflects this commitment
 (Table 4). The University is an active agent of social mobility, recruiting more Index of Multiple
 Deprivation Q1 students (33%) than the sector average (21%) and with its proportion also
 growing faster than sector average.

                      Table 4: Aston Student Demographics                          2019/20
         (Total number 17,686; UG 13,186; PGT 3,875; PGR 625)
         BAME                                                                     70%
         White                                                                    30%
         Have a declared Disability                                               8%
         Household Income less than £43k                                          34%
         Household income less than £25k                                          27%
         Female                                                                   49%
         Male                                                                     51%
         West Midlands (2019/20)                                                  46%
         Birmingham (2019/20)                                                     31%



                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    2. Strategy
 University Structure

 2.1 Between 2014 and 2020, Aston University was organised into five academic Schools; these
 were consolidated as three Colleges in August 2020. In REF2021 we are returning to seven
 Units of Assessment (Figure 2). This structure will further embed the priorities of the University
 Research Strategy (section 2.3), by providing more opportunities for cross-disciplinary research.




 2.2 Research Committee is a Sub-Committee of Senate with responsibility for the development,
 implementation and evaluation of the Research Strategy, including integration of the University
 and College Strategies. This structure is reinforced by weekly informal meetings between the
 PVC Research and College Associate Deans for Research. Our REF Code of Practice details
 the University’s governance structures for REF2021.
 2.3 Aston’s Research Strategy (2019-2023) is constructed around four mutually-reinforcing
 elements: Impact, Collaboration, Excellence, and Sustainability. Together with our new
 Knowledge Exchange (KE) Strategy, it provides a framework to prioritise strategic investment,
 and assess how research and KE activities deliver for our beneficiaries.
 2.4 Aston’s commitment to excellence informs all our activity; including the recruitment, support,
 retention and development of exceptional individuals at all career stages (section 3). This
 commitment reinforces Aston’s position as a ‘dual-intensive’ institution, with the quality of
 Aston’s teaching recognised by TEF Gold (2017). In 2020, Aston was named The Guardian’s
 University of the Year, and the Times Higher Outstanding Entrepreneurial University, while the
 new Students’ Union building won The Guardian’s ‘Buildings That Inspire’ award. We mark our
 successes through our annual Research Celebration event and KTP Showcase, both hosted by
 the Vice-Chancellor.
 2.5 A central pillar of our Strategy is the role played by Aston’s newly accredited collaborative,
 multi-disciplinary University Research Institutes (URI). Each URI represents an area of critical
 mass, and excellent research with impact: Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies (AIPT-
 UoA12); Energy and Bioproducts Research Institute (EBRI-UoA12); Aston Institute of Health and
 Neurodevelopment (IHN-UoA3); Aston Institute for Forensic Linguistics (AIFL-UoA26). The URIs
 are priorities for research capital investment, and are key drivers of financial sustainability,
 accounting for one-third of research awards in 2019-20.
 2.6 Our ‘beneficiaries approach’ and track-record of research on real-world problems mean that
 impact is deeply embedded in our academic units and our professional services teams (section
 4). For example, our portfolio of 27 KTPs (eighth largest in the UK) provide an excellent platform
 for delivering research with impact. Aston’s KTP team won awards at the Innovate UK ‘Best of
 the Best’ National KTP Awards in 2019 and 2020.


                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.7 Collaboration is a critical element of translation and delivering impact to our beneficiaries
 (ILES-4.7). Aston currently has over 30 institutional-level research partnerships with international
 universities (58.7% of outputs were published with international co-authors in this REF period),
 and over 100 further partnerships focussing on staff and student exchange. Aston has research-
 focussed Knowledge Exchange relationships with 50 Industry Partners (5.8% of outputs during
 the REF cycle include industrial co-authors (above average)).
 2.8 The future health of Aston’s research environment is predicated on financial sustainability.
 Our position as a ‘dual intensive’ University and the resulting commitment to widening
 participation, retention, student placements and employability involves numerous resource
 intensive interventions; consequently, the more financially sustainable our research is, the more
 we can afford to do. Our support for bidding for research funding is clearly set out, including
 policies for internal peer review, match funding and due-diligence. Our objective is to grow
 funding from UKRI, Government (including KTPs) and industry: in 2019-20, we won our highest-
 ever level of UKRI awards (£8.5m out of £30m).

 Interdisciplinary research (IDR)

 2.9 Aston actively facilitates IDR at all levels (individual, group, institutional), as well as with
 research partners in the UK and abroad. We invest in IDR through the URIs (section 2.3), Study
 Leave, the International Collaboration Fund and activities run by the Strategic Funding
 Managers (SFMs) (section 4.5).
 2.10 Interdisciplinarity forms a significant element of training provision for Post Graduate
 Researchers (PGRs) and Early Career Researchers (ECRs) delivered by the Aston Graduate
 School (AGS), the ECR Forum and Organisational Development. AGS organises an annual
 conference around an IDR topic, as well as an annual Interdisciplinary Seminar Series with
 invited academic speakers.

 Research Integrity

 2.11 Aston’s Research Integrity Policy and associated Research Integrity Assurance Procedures
 expect the highest standards of integrity in the conduct of research. The University is a signatory
 of the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and is committed to the principles of
 honesty, rigour, transparency, open communication, care, and respect.
 2.12 Aston University Research Integrity Office (AURIO) is the central point of contact for
 Research Ethics, Governance, and Integrity. AURIO includes the Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor
 (Research Integrity), the Research Integrity Manager and Research Integrity Officer. AURIO
 works with Aston University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) to monitor and improve
 institutional ethics policies and guidelines, and provides training and support for Researchers via
 dedicated programmes (section 3.10). In 2020, Aston funded a Research Ethics Portal to
 streamline the research ethics process.
 2.13 Aston is a signatory to DORA. The University’s Policy for the Responsible Use of Research
 Publication Metrics (2020) reinforces the primacy of substantive peer review and recognises the
 value that metrics can add to that process. Scival is used for reporting, benchmarking and
 analysis of research indicators.

 Structures to support an open research environment

 2.14 Our Open Research Data Policy (2019) highlights the requirement to maintain accurate and
 retrievable data generated by research in order to open up data for scrutiny, to validate and
 replicate research, and to re-use data. The Policy applies to all researchers, PGRs and
 professional services staff supporting research data management. Evidence of progress towards
 compliance with the Concordat on ORD is reported regularly to the URC.




                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.15 Aston’s Open Access (OA) Policy aligns with UKRI OA requirements for REF2021. Aston
 provides comprehensive guidance on all aspects of OA, with specific expertise provided by the
 Library’s Open Access and Research Repository Specialists, and Information Specialists.
 2.16 Aston has committed £370,000 to securing Gold Open Access since 2014. In 2020 Aston
 decided to focus investment on the publishing element of new transformative/read and publish
 contracts. Such contracts offer greater return on investment when compared to paying individual
 Article Processing Charges for non-funded authors. To date Aston has contracts with eleven
 publishers.
 2.17 99% of REF Category A staff have an ORCID iD.

    3. People
 3.1 In 2015, Aston moved to a standard model of permanent appointment with a three-year
 probation period for Teaching and Research staff. Since then, the share of (T&R) staff on fixed-
 term contracts has fallen from 35% to 2%. Aston has not used zero hours contracts during this
 REF period.
 3.2 Aston’s academic recruitment since 2014/15 (Figure 3) demonstrates our commitment to
 improving diversity (section 1.6). In 2021, we will consider anonymous shortlisting for our
 academic recruitment processes.




 3.3 Promotion is one of the ways we reward and retain excellent staff and build a strong
 community of academics, with 145 T&R colleagues promoted since 2014/15 (Table 5).
 Promotion for Teaching and Research staff is based upon excellence in either Research, or
 Teaching and Learning. On the Research route, the promotions criteria are explicitly aligned to
 the Research Strategy (section 2.3).


                      Table 5: Academic promotions (2014-15 to 2019-20)
                                                       Total        Gender Breakdown
       Lecturer to Senior Lecturer                               77 60% M - 40% F
       Senior Lecturer to Reader                                 44 57% M - 43% F
       Reader to Professor                                       24 63% M - 37% F




                                                                                            Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 3.4 Aston’s Diversity and Inclusion Strategy details our commitment to creating an inclusive
 environment aligned with the broader Aston Mission (Figure 1). Data collection and analysis is
 critical to the understanding of Aston’s EDI profile, informs discussions with staff and students,
 and helps to identify areas of culture, policy, and practice which require improvement. The
 Guardian 2020 University of the Year Award specifically highlighted Aston’s EDI programme
 (section 1.2). We are striving to address our leaky pipeline and the lack of diversity (particularly
 with respect to race), at senior levels. In 2020, we developed our LGBT+ Inclusion Charter and
 we are working towards enhanced training and support with respect to disability.

 3.5 The EDI Strategy is operationalised through policies and procedures and diverse
 membership of University Committees. The Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Forum (EDIF)
 (Figure 4), consolidates eight active strands of activity across the University. EDIF reports to the
 University Executive ensuring relevant activities align with management priorities and University
 Strategy.




 3.6 EDIF works in parallel to the Gender Equality Project Management Group, which focuses on
 the priorities of the Athena SWAN Charter. By 2025, we aim to eliminate our Gender Pay Gap of
 19.5% in 2020 by focusing on consistency of starting salary, and pay parity on promotion and
 within professorial bands. Aston’s Pay Gap Working Group is looking at issues around the
 relative lack of diversity at senior levels; developing anonymous recruitment processes focused
 on skills-based assessment, and developing a pool of diversity and inclusion experts to support
 recruitment panels. The College of Engineering and Physical Sciences’ excellent practice in this
 area is recognised by its ATHENA Swan Silver award and is being adopted across the
 University (Table 6).

             Table 6: Athena SWAN Awards                   Type of       Level
                                                           Award
    University                                             Institutional Silver
    School of Engineering and Applied Science              Departmental Silver (Applying for
                                                                         Gold during 2021)
    School of Life and Health Sciences                     Departmental Bronze
    Aston Business School/Aston Law School                 Departmental Applying for Bronze
    School of Languages and Social Sciences                Departmental Bronze

 Staff Wellbeing

 3.7 Aston has a comprehensive suite of Health, Safety and Welfare policies, procedures and
 guidance covering: Leave and Attendance (including the Parenting at Aston Scheme, Flexible

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Working, and Compassionate Leave); Wellbeing (including EDI, Work-Life Balance, Work-
 Related Stress and Menopause); all aspects of Working at Aston. Staff have highlighted the
 following as particularly valuable:

        i.   Since 2017, the cost of parental leave is no longer borne locally; instead, the
             University centrally funds up to a year of parental leave above statutory rates;
       ii.   Mental health/wellbeing resources that are reflected in our Workplace Wellbeing
             Charter accreditation;
      iii.   All staff employed for more than 26 weeks may apply for flexible working;
      iv.    All services, facilities, promotion and job opportunities are available to staff on
             extended leave;
       v.    Comprehensive support is offered to those taking extended leave for reasons of ill-
             health;
      vi.    Staff requiring periods of leave for caring may request part-time working, flexible
             hours, or take up to one-year unpaid leave;
     vii.    Formalised KIT and SPLIT days, re-induction processes and phased returns help
             colleagues returning from extended leave to re-establish careers;
     viii.   A robust Bullying and Harassment Policy.

 Academic Career Development

 3.8 In 2018-19, My Development Conversation replaced the previous Performance Development
 Review. This shifted the emphasis from biannual review to continuous dialogue, which is
 particularly important regarding the professional development and employability opportunities of
 fixed-term research-only staff. Through this process, colleagues agree targets for grant
 applications, publications and public engagement activity. In 2017/18, the University opened the
 promotions path up to Professorial level for both Research, and Teaching and Clinical staff.

 3.9 Mentoring networks offer a safe, informal environment for staff to discuss issues, and seek
 guidance. All new staff and ECRs have at least one mentor, usually a senior colleague and we
 have invested in PLD mentoring software. At senior levels, mentoring and coaching is arranged
 on a personal basis, with some senior staff accessing mentors in other universities. The Culture,
 Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS-2020) indicated that
 60% of respondents at Aston have a mentor, and that 58% of those with a mentor stated that the
 relationship had a positive impact on career development.
 3.10 Aston’s staff development programmes are well established. All staff complete mandatory
 training, including E&D Awareness, Unconscious Bias and General Data Protection Regulation
 Awareness. Academic staff access continuing professional development, including ‘Introduction
 to Learning and Teaching’ and the ‘PGDip in Academic Leadership’. Staff without a teaching
 qualification must obtain this or an Advance HE Fellowship within 2 years of joining Aston. The
 RKE team offers training geared to the research lifecycle (sections 2.9, 4.5). The Organisational
 Development team provides training opportunities, including Executive Development, Change
 Management, and The Institute of Leadership & Management programmes.

 3.11 Study Leave is managed at College level and is recognised as an essential element of a
 research environment that prioritises excellence.
 3.12 Aston is a signatory of the Technician Commitment, a sector wide initiative led by the
 Science Council, supported by the Gatsby Foundation to help address key challenges facing
 technical staff. A technicians’ representative is a member of URC.



                                                                                                   Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 ECR Forum

 3.13 Aston maintains its commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers through regular reviews and updates of policies, practice and the Researcher
 Development Programme. The HR Excellence in Research Award (2020) recognises this
 institutional undertaking. Responsibility for the implementation of the Concordat rests with the
 ‘HR Excellence in Research Award Group’, which is co-chaired by the ECR Facilitator and the
 Dean of the Graduate School.
 3.14 The ECR Development Programme is managed by the Researcher Development Advisor
 and Professional Development Advisor, both of whom are based in the Graduate School. It
 includes formalised Career Development Planning and Training Needs Analysis, plus a wide
 range of centrally managed courses (Knowledge and Intellectual Abilities, Personal
 Effectiveness, Research Governance and Organisation, and Engagement Influence and Impact).
 Elements of the annual Graduate School Training Programme are also open to ECRs.

 Support of PGR students

 3.15 Formed in 2010, the Aston Graduate School (AGS) is a cross-university initiative, led by the
 Associate PVC/Dean of the Graduate School. The Graduate School Management Committee
 (GSMC) reports into Research Committee, ensures the quality of PGR-programmes across the
 University, fosters interdisciplinary initiatives and supports PGR-student wellbeing. Thus, it has
 had a considerable impact on the student experience and quality of the doctoral process.
 3.16 AGS has implemented standard processes and documentation for the PGR lifecycle, and
 ensures quality standards for all research degree programmes. Overall responsibility for the
 welfare of PGRs lies with the Colleges who own the PGR programmes. College Directors of
 Research Degree Programmes are members of GSMC, thus ensuring that AGS has strong links
 to the day-to-day running of all research degree programmes. All staff with supervision
 responsibility are required to complete mandatory supervision training regardless of career
 stage.
 3.17 The Graduate School Training Programme supports career development, both within
 academia and beyond. PGRs receive a comprehensive AGS Handbook; attend the AGS and
 College Inductions; undertake 90 hours of research skills training; and are invited to complete
 the Introduction to Learning and Teaching Practice course delivered by the University’s
 Education Team before undertaking any teaching. The AGS Training Programme is based on
 the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and the training sessions align with the
 Framework’s four domains. Funder specific requirements are met through training provision
 offered by Colleges and the relevant UKRI doctoral training structures for each College.

 3.18 Aston Postgraduate Research Society (APRS) encourages collaboration between Colleges,
 aiming to improve the social and academic experiences of Aston PGRs. APRS nominates
 representatives to relevant committees within the University governance structure.

 3.19 The Centre for English Language and Communication at Aston offers training for students
 and staff for whom English is not their first language.

    4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 4.1 The growth in academic faculty, coupled with the expansion of research support provision
 has facilitated an increase in grant capture (£15m in 2013/14 to £30m in 2019/20) and research
 income (£12.5m in 2013/14 to £17m in 2019/20). Record grant capture in 2018/19 and 2019/20
 will underpin continued growth in research income.



                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Facilities

 4.2 Since 2013/14, £25.55m of capital expenditure has been incurred against research project
 codes, research cost centres and research estates projects in Aston’s areas of research
 strength. Since 2018, this investment has aligned with the URIs (section 2.5) in order to
 maximise return, for example £7.3m investment into 30 AIPT laboratories, supported by a £500k
 Wolfson equipment grant, plus an additional £3m internal investment on equipment.
 4.3 The Midlands Innovation consortium equipment catalogue facilitates equipment sharing
 between member universities. MI also enabled Aston to partner on successful cross HEI funding
 applications (section 1.6)

 Infrastructure (research, translation and impact)

 4.4 Aston’s research support infrastructure is led by the PVC Research and Executive Director
 of Business Engagement. The RKE Department (section 4.4) includes 56 members of staff and
 nine teams (Research Strategy, Funding and Impact; Graduate School; Research Integrity;
 Knowledge Exchange; Business Engagement; Regional Strategy; Corporate Client Solutions;
 and Research Marketing). Our support for research also includes teams in Finance, HR, Library
 Services, Organisational Development, plus Research Managers and Administrators in
 Colleges.
 4.5 During the REF period, the University Grant Writing Programme (organised by the Strategic
 Funding Managers (SFMs)) has developed into a comprehensive course. The programme takes
 15 participants through the application process from initial idea to approval, including costing,
 peer review and mock panels. As part of the Programme, we draw on the experience of senior
 staff with a track-record of funding success to provide constructive feedback to participants. The
 SFMs regularly run drop-in sessions to support all aspects of research funding.
 4.6 The Development and Alumni Relations Office (DARO) facilitates partnerships with third-
 party organisations as well as managing philanthropic relationships with alumni. DARO works
 with academics and SFMs to secure funding from charitable trusts with a focus on the URIs.
 4.7 To mark the University’s Golden Jubilee in 2016, the Aston University Prize Fund was
 established to facilitate research. Between 2016-18, Aston matched funds 50:50 for 54 PhD
 Studentships (£2.1m); six Research Fellows co-funded by external partners (£348k); and £120k
 for International Research Scholarships.
 4.8 Aston has received £577k of Global Challenges Research Fund QR funding since 2018.
 Funding supported collaborative initiatives with international partners. We have strengthened
 collaborations leading to further competitive, collaborative awards, such as a Newton Fund
 award with Indonesia, an UKRI/GCRF award and a Newton Prize nomination on nutrition in
 Kenya.
 4.9 Aston has invested in systems that underpin our activity throughout the research lifecycle,
 including:
    i.    Moving from pFACT and Agresso Awards Management to Agresso Research Costing
          and Pricing for the costing and management of research funding;
   ii.    Elsevier hosting of PURE for research information management;
   iii.   Subscriptions to Scival and ResearchProfessional;
   iv.    Dods Parliamentary Companion.
 4.10 Through our Knowledge Exchange Strategy, we aim to deliver economic growth,
 productivity enhancement and social impact around five key themes: research and knowledge
 transfer; degree apprenticeships and work-based learning; employability and entrepreneurship;
 regional and civil engagement; business engagement.


                                                                                            Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4.11 Our work in Knowledge Exchange also tackles social and economic challenges, informs
 and influences policy to foster a culture of evidence-based policymaking and will form the
 foundation of our Civic University Agreement (2021). We work closely with regional bodies,
 developing shared projects that benefit citizens, for example:
   i.    Raising awareness of the importance of eye health (Villa Vision initiative);
   ii.   Sustainable business growth and productivity (Unlocking Opportunity with the Federation
         of Small Businesses);
  iii.   Consultancy activities undertaken with SMEs; Aston is the most active university in the
         Midlands, and ninth in the UK (2018/19 HE-BCI data);
  iv.    EBRI working with Low-Carbon SMEs including, FuturEnergy Ltd and Modus Waste &
         Recycling;
   v.    Through the Citizens UK Birmingham Business Leaders Programme, colleagues in Aston
         Business School are supporting BAME enterprises to access Government via the
         COVID-19 Emergency Listening Campaign.
 4.12 We have invested in our internal support for a diverse range of industrial research
 collaborations and translational research. Key posts are funded internally and through HEIF in
 the Knowledge Exchange team, the Business Engagement team, and in Schools (including
 Associate Deans Research and Impact Champions). In 2016, a Research Impact Manager was
 recruited to develop systems and processes to identify, nurture and capture information on the
 impact arising from Aston research; a full-time Impact Officer was added in 2019.
 4.13 Since 2018, an annual Impact Fund of £150K has been invested to accelerate data
 collection for REF Impact Case Studies, and to support the development of a pipeline of more
 than 200 potential impacts across the University. A range of training sessions, workshops,
 group-based away days, and one-to-one consultations are delivered through RKE, AGS and the
 ECR Forum to spread and embed best practice regarding the integration of impact into the
 research process. Aston works closely with the Industry and Parliament Trust and The
 Conversation to access training and support for developing researcher skills in engagement and
 to communicate the outcomes of its research.
 4.14 Examples of our activities in translation and impact over this REF period include:
   i.    Match-funding to support a portfolio of 21 ERDF projects (total value over £10m);
   ii.   Through the Aston Centre for Growth, 14 dedicated SME support programmes working
         with almost 800 companies
  iii.   Growth of our KTP portfolio from 7 to 27 in the REF period, including KTPs now held in
         all three Colleges;
  iv.    Through MICRA (section 1.5), re-launching academic support processes for translation
         of technologies and intellectual property;
   v.    Growth of collaborative working with international partners (academic and industrial)
         through £34.2m EU H2020 funded projects, in particular Marie S Curie Actions and
         awards from the Future and Emerging Technologies programme.




                                                                                             Page 11
