Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 1. Context and mission

 The University of Roehampton’s distinctive research culture is driven by a commitment to
 advancing a socially just, sustainable and creative society. Our research mission emerges from
 the history of our four founding bodies (Church of England; the Roman Catholic Society of the
 Sacred Heart; the Southlands Methodist Trust; and the lay Froebel Institute) and their colleges,
 dating back to 1841, which sought to enhance opportunity across society by training a new cadre
 of women teachers. Our independent university status was granted in 2004. Our origins as the
 longest serving higher education provider to women in the UK continues to inform our ethos. We
 support students from diverse backgrounds to experience an education underpinned by research
 that places academic excellence at its core. The University is home to a diverse community of
 223.05FTE (239 headcount) independent researchers in 11 units, across the arts, humanities,
 social and health sciences (and a small unit of ecologists; exemption). Our colleagues and their
 research are managed in seven academic departments and schools on a historical campus setting
 in the diverse Borough of Wandsworth in South West London. Our reputation for research, and
 the educational experience it underpins, is prized by our staff, students and the communities we
 serve, from local stakeholders through to our national and international networks.

 Our confidence as an institution builds on the longevity and maturity of our research cultures. First
 as the Roehampton Institute, and then as the University of Surrey, Roehampton, we have made
 independent submissions across the liberal arts and health sciences to each RAE and REF
 exercise since 1992, including the last two as the University of Roehampton. REF2014 was a
 watershed, when we submitted 66% of eligible staff, and over two thirds of our research was
 recognised as internationally excellent or world-leading. Building on this position, between 2013
 and 2020 we have invested in growing our reputation for research and impact. We have expanded
 the work of long-established units that were recognised for their high-quality research outputs
 (English Language and Literature; Education; History; Theology and Religious Studies). Our
 interdisciplinary focus on health research has been extended across distinct units (Allied Health;
 Psychology). We have radically evolved the foci of other research units to promote more inclusive
 research cultures that respond to societal and cultural needs (Communications, Culture and Media
 Studies, now incorporates researchers previously returned to Modern Languages; Sociology, now
 incorporates researchers previously returned to Social Anthropology). We have actively sustained
 research excellence in the performing arts, where our research continues to provide definition to
 the contours of the discipline (Dance), and where our focus on creativity has cultivated an
 international reputation for experimentation (Drama, Theatre and Performance). Research units
 that were embryonic in REF2014 (Business) have grown rapidly as a result of sustained
 investment in new staff.

 Our research and knowledge exchange (RKE) priorities emerge from these units and respond to
 national and international challenges. We are developing a culture that focuses on the co-
 production of research priorities with international research collaborators, local government, and
 major civic institutions, to address societal needs through greater interdisciplinary collaboration
 and integration. These efforts have already been realised in the transformation of organisational
 units at the University (across the Arts and Humanities) to achieve greater critical mass, and new
 research foci (across the health sciences) in line with our academic strategy. These strategic
 changes have led to the concentration of investment and new priorities for our research units, to
 ensure financial sustainability. Further investment in areas of growth will focus on staff who
 complement and add interdisciplinary affinities to our existing research strengths, whilst catalysing
 new priorities within them, for example Health and Computer Sciences for the creative industries.

 2. Strategy

 We recently launched a Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy for 2020-25, built around
 core institution-wide themes developed in dialogue with our academic community, major civic
 organisations and community stakeholders. These themes – of social justice and inclusion;
 creative ecologies; healthy living; economic sustainability and environmental conservation and the

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 role of faith in society – align with our institutional values and will focus our academic pursuits. Our
 aim is to produce high-quality research in an enriching and inclusive research environment for
 staff and PGRs, and to deliver significant impact for our research users and local communities. To
 complement our existing portfolio of collaborations, we are extending our engagement with local
 government, community organisations, microbusinesses and SMEs, to ensure our research
 informs our civic role, socially, culturally and economically. Our membership of the Greater London
 Authority-funded South London Knowledge Exchange Partnership and BIG (Business, Innovation
 and Growth) scheme in South London, a sub-regional partnership between five London Boroughs
 and six universities to transform the local economy and society, is integral to these plans. Aligned
 with our institutional mission, initiatives to empower research leaders and attract diverse and
 talented researchers to our inclusive research community will be launched. Research
 infrastructure investment, both digital and physical, will support these ambitions. Curriculum
 developments and extracurricular opportunities will enable students to engage with and benefit
 from our research activities, including funded research internship schemes. Underpinning our
 ambitious strategy is financial sustainability, which will necessitate focused research investments,
 and the growth and diversification of our RKE income to increase research capacity. We intend to
 concentrate our research efforts in line with our strategic priority themes, building on existing
 successful income trajectories and increased capacity in senior research leaders, to deliver on an
 ambitious approach to large-scale research funding and an active knowledge exchange portfolio
 (KTPs).

 Our new RKE Strategy, 2020-25, builds on the delivery of our strategy since 2013/4, which focused
 on sustaining research capacity in units recognised for their excellence, and building an
 international reputation for research and its impact. We sought to achieve this through: 1)
 supporting the production of high-quality research outputs with an international profile; 2) the
 growth and success of our doctoral community; and 3) generating increased external investment
 in our research. We have prioritised strengthening our existing research units through investment
 in academic posts (129 new staff since August 2013), across the whole life-cycle of research, from
 inception to impact, and across all career stages. We have also invested in institutional PhD
 studentships, and our commitment to match-fund PhD studentships is one of the means through
 which we have incentivised research grant capture. Our investment of QR, QR GCRF and
 institutional resources to respond to external opportunities has accelerated the delivery of these
 strategic objectives, and delivered concrete outcomes: 1) we have increased the volume and
 quality of our research outputs, with in excess of 2,800 outputs in diverse forms having been
 produced by research staff at the institution since 2014 2) we have also radically transformed our
 postgraduate research community, doubling annual PGR completions between 2012/13 and
 2019/20 (336, including a further 59 PsychD completions between 2013 and 2016) and have
 actively promoted interdisciplinary research projects at a PGR level, supported by cross-
 departmental teams and external partners, 3) we have delivered strategic, sustainable growth of
 our research income since 2013/14, culminating in a 121% increase in annual research income in
 2019/20 when compared with 2012/13.

 Our impact strategy has focused on supporting units to consolidate existing collaborative networks
 and partnerships, and develop new ones, to better align our research and engagement activities
 with the needs of our key users. In addition to major relationships with policy makers, multinational
 corporations across health and media and international NGOs aligned to social justice, we have
 invigorated new public, third-sector and industry partnerships at an institutional level in South West
 London, including with Crystal Palace FC, Battersea Arts Centre, the Lawn Tennis Association,
 the National Trust West, and London Mental Health Trust. We have also launched innovative
 collaborations that extend the reach of our research, such as partnering with the University of the
 Third Age to enhance their provision and collaborate on shared-learning projects (we now host
 their annual national conference). In 2016, to coincide with the 175th anniversary of our oldest
 college, we launched Class of 2020 in partnership with British Telecom, to empower and raise the
 aspirations of 175 young women from 23 schools across London and, in 2019/20, we partnered
 with the Battersea Arts Centre to offer academic and PGR placements in their innovation hub, to
 drive new collaborative social impact projects.


                                                                                                  Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Our investment in impact has included institution-wide and departmental leadership roles,
 complemented by dedicated Post-doctoral Research Associates and Research Facilitators who
 have been aligned to strategic impact projects. Additionally, approximately one third of staff are
 supported with enhanced workload allowances of up to 10% on an annual basis to pursue impact
 in line with strategic objectives. Proactive seed-funding has catalysed and accelerated impact,
 including through: the ‘Sounds of Intent’ programme, an evidence-based framework and
 curriculum for assessing the effect of music on children with learning difficulties, which is used in
 up to 80% of UK schools for children with severe or profound and multiple learning difficulties;
 environmental conservation efforts in the Caribbean which have safeguarded sea turtle
 populations whilst supporting the local fishing and tourism economy; and an interactive theatrical
 experience based on research into the emotional and social meaning of libraries, which
 subsequently received AHRC follow-on funding. Similarly, our HEIF funding has underpinned
 interdisciplinary research-led innovation, including projects to improve accessibility to live art for
 hearing-impaired audiences, technological delivery of healthcare, and arts-based interventions to
 improve evidenced-based patient outcomes with age-related diseases, such as through music
 with Alzheimer’s, and dance with Parkinson’s, sufferers. We have helped build capacity across
 these activities by supporting staff through dedicated one-to-one training that is responsive to
 individual impact needs and which is accessible to all, and additional impact evaluation support.
 All 25 of our Impact Case Studies have benefitted from this specialist input.

 The delivery of our research and impact strategies has been enabled by an open and collaborative
 research culture that prizes research integrity. Academic freedom is protected and no conditions
 are imposed on the subject of research. Robust procedures and policies have ensured that
 research integrity is embedded across units, including through a revised Code of Good Research
 Practice since 2019/20. We have complied with the Concordat for Research Integrity annually
 since 2016/17. Good Clinical Practice training has been mandatory for researchers in clinical
 settings since 2015/16, and Good Research Practice training was extended to all staff in 2019/20.
 We advocate for green open access (OA), and all staff are offered individualised support to ensure
 compliance. Since 2018, we have implemented gold OA agreements with Springer, Sage and
 Wiley. OA rates have increased year-on-year since 2015/16, reaching 91% compliance in
 2019/20. Our repository is harvested by CORE and is registered with JISC's Directory of Open
 Access Repositories (openDOAR), and all PGR student theses are harvested by EThOS. Regular
 reviews of progress towards open research data are undertaken, and we provide best practice
 guidance for RDM planning, storage options and open access to data. Researchers are
 encouraged to deposit research data in free, openly accessible subject repositories, whilst high-
 capacity, secure storage facilities are available. Institution-wide open research initiatives include
 the launch in 2014 of Fincham Press, which publishes three open access journals, including
 RoundTable, a PGR-led initiative. We also support a range of projects to document and archive
 open data, including scientific and historical data, oral histories and performances. For example,
 a long-term British Academy-supported project, with the British Record Society, documents and
 disseminates 17th century Hearth Tax population data in an openly accessible format online.
 Ensuring that the outcomes of our research are as widely accessible as possible also drives our
 commitment to an open-source model wherever intellectual property allows, for example, through
 our maintenance of a free license to the NER-model (a live-subtitling quality control framework)
 which is now an international industry standard.

 3. People

 Since 2014, a clear and well understood university-wide staffing strategy has underpinned the
 delivery of our research objectives. Our people-centred approach has: driven investment in our
 existing staff base to facilitate successful research outcomes, including research allowances,
 sabbaticals and investment in new staff; focused on staff development and furthering individuals’
 research leadership capabilities, in order to retain and motivate high-quality staff through career
 progression; and attracted diverse talent with the ability to be highly-successful in research and
 leadership to grow our future research capacity.



                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Investment in the delivery of research objectives includes workload allowances of up to 40%,
 which are enriched by a one-in-six semester sabbatical system for all eligible staff, irrespective of
 fixed-term or part-time contracts. In addition to internal career development opportunities, all staff
 have access to dedicated departmental funds to support research development and delivery.
 Between 2013/14 and 2019/20 these funds totalled £2.15m. Individual academic units have
 autonomy over expenditure, which has underpinned the production and dissemination of research
 through research trips, conference attendance, and the development of impact. Further
 centralised funds, utilising overheads from externally funded research projects, have been
 redistributed through open competition to seed-fund research and impact initiatives.

 All research staff meet regularly with an allocated senior mentor to discuss the progress of current
 projects and publications, upcoming bids, and career progression. Staff are also offered a
 comprehensive training programme, targeted according to career stage, discipline and strategic
 priorities. Since 2018/19 the programme has engaged over one third of the research staff base
 annually across 25 sessions. Career development mentoring and support, alongside robust
 research planning, has supported 35% of research staff through promotion internally since 2014,
 including 43 staff from Lecturer to Principal and Senior Lecturer (including accelerated promotion),
 29 Senior and Principal Lecturers to Reader, and a further 15 to Professor on the research stream.
 A culture of internal promotion supports robust succession planning in research leadership. New
 progression routes for professional and technical staff recognise the breadth of expertise required
 to sustain our research community, supporting the transition from Research Officer to Research
 Manager, and from Research Facilitator to academic posts.

 Our staff recruitment strategy prioritises high-quality research, aligned to core research strengths
 or areas of strategic investment. 54% of staff with a significant responsibility for research have
 been appointed since REF2014. Senior research management, including the Vice-Provost
 (Research and External Engagement), interview all research appointments with departmental
 research leaders. We ensure academic autonomy at all levels of decision making, and unit
 research priorities drive recruitment strategies within institutional frameworks. For example, in
 some units we have invested heavily in mid-career and senior posts during this period as an
 institution, in order to accelerate the delivery of our research strategy. This is most evident in our
 Business unit, where we have grown from 4.8FTE to 18.7FTE since 2013/14 with significant
 investment in the professoriate. Our English Literature and Language unit, on the other hand, has
 focused on developing Early Career Research capacities, recruiting 8 ECRs amongst 13 new staff
 in the period. In 2016-17, we intervened in the closure of Heythrop College, a 400-year-old Jesuit
 institution, to incorporate seven members of their academic staff within our School of Humanities
 to sustain our staff base in Theology, whilst providing a new home for that institution’s important
 intellectual legacy.

 Early Career Researchers are supported with ringfenced workload allowances and accelerated
 sabbaticals at the most appropriate point in the first years of their career, as standard. Professional
 development allowances of up to 30% can be requested by all new academic staff, and particularly
 those who have recently completed a PhD on the production of a suitable rationale, to facilitate
 their professional development. In 2019/20 we also launched ECAN, the Early Career Academic
 Network, and a coaching programme to support career development. Building on best practice in
 our School of Humanities, we are now offering dedicated ECR mentors within departments, and
 Honorary Fellowships to recently completed PGRs and all ECR leavers, in order to enable them
 to maintain institutional affiliation and access to academic resources whilst they progress their
 career. We are also expanding our Honorary Professor scheme to initiate key relationships to
 galvanise and catalyse interdisciplinary research or industry networks.

 Postgraduate research students have been a major strategic focus during this period, and we
 recognise these future independent research colleagues as the lifeblood of our disciplines. The
 Graduate School supports over 370 PGRs and their research supervisors. All PGR students have
 a Director of Studies who is experienced in supervising PhDs to completion, and at least one co-
 supervisor. All new staff, and particularly ECRs, are incorporated into existing and new supervisory
 teams in order to build supervisory capacity and provide development opportunities. In recognition

                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of the diverse career paths for our PGRs, we also ensure that staff who have pedagogical,
 creative, business, or clinical practice are in place to support professional development where
 appropriate. Supervisors are required to have successfully completed SEDA-accredited
 supervisory training. All PGR students are supported with a guaranteed research allowance to
 support expenses and further internal grants are available (sponsored by Santander, Ede and
 Ravenscroft, and the Southlands Methodist Trust) to deliver additional research, conferences, and
 related activities over their three years of study. A development programme offers over 80
 sessions annually, in person and virtually as a resource bank. Provision is responsive, following
 evaluation of individual needs, and includes training opportunities focusing on employability,
 careers beyond academia, and commercialisation. Since 2016, we have also participated in the
 ESRC doctoral training partnership, South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS), which
 provides training to our entire PGR community. We also support PGR students pursuing academic
 careers to receive Associate Fellowship of the HEA through the SEDA Course and we provide
 teaching opportunities through the Brilliant Club, an award-winning university access charity. All
 intellectual property derived from PGR research is owned by the student, including where the
 research supervision is undertaken with other public or private organisations, providing the
 foundation for entrepreneurialism and the transition between academia and industry.

 Since 2013-14, our PGR community in Arts and Humanities has been invigorated by our
 membership of the AHRC-funded TECHNE, and from 2019, TECHNE2 doctoral training
 partnerships, for which we organise all student training. We have received 52 TECHNE main
 competition studentships, and 6 CDA awards. Institutional investment in 50 Vice-Chancellor’s PhD
 Scholarships was made in 2015, and scholarships have since been awarded to match-fund the
 support of major externally-funded research projects or to stimulate new research priorities. Since
 2014, we have awarded over 70 fees and bursary VC studentships, including three fees-only
 awards. Five further major competitions, aligned with our research priorities, have been delivered
 in the period, including the Roehampton University Sacred Heart (RUSH) scholarship which
 provides opportunities for international PhD candidates from ODA-recipient nations whose work
 showed a commitment to social change. Since 2017, we have also funded two studentships as a
 member of Higher Education Scholarships Palestine (HESPAL) partnership between UK HEIs and
 the British Council, Palestine, to provide doctoral opportunities for Palestinian academics.

 Our commitment to foster an inclusive research community incorporates PGRs and staff. Key
 initiatives, for example, accelerated research leave immediately preceding or following a
 significant period of parental leave, have been integral to providing an inclusive research
 environment. 27 nationalities are represented across our 239 research staff, and we continue to
 maintain a higher proportion of female academic staff than male academic staff, at 54% and 46%
 respectively, whilst 47% of our professoriate are women, compared to the sector average of 27%.
 Our PGR community of 371 students includes individuals from 52 nationalities, of whom 71% are
 women, and 30% identify as BAME, against sector averages of 49% and 19% respectively). 10%
 of our research staff identify as BAME. We are proud of the diversity of our PGR community,
 however, we also recognise that proportionately our 69% BAME UG students are not represented
 at PGR level, and of our BAME PGRs, those who pursue academic careers tend to do so outside
 of the UK. In order to address structural inequalities in the sector, we will launch a TECHNE-
 funded platform to encourage and increase PGR applications from BAME candidates in 2021, and
 a dedicated research fellowship scheme to support PGRs from underrepresented groups to
 transition to academic employment, providing crucial role models within the institution and sector.
 We operate a number of funded staff networks, including the BAME, Pride and Women’s networks,
 respectively. All provide a safe space for colleagues and work with the University to identify
 improvements to policies and procedures. Equality Impact Assessments are completed for all new
 policies and strategies, and all recruitment panels are gender and ethnicity balanced. RKE Leads
 undertake unconscious bias training as a condition of their involvement in decision-making and
 advisory positions, and promote inclusive research cultures, for example ensuring that seminar
 series are representative. Our reflective practices foster a culture of continuous improvement,
 such as the recent adjustment of PGR regulations to mirror staff parental leave policy. The
 University was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze award in October 2018. We are a Disability
 Confident Level 2 employer working towards Level 3, and provide a supportive research culture

                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 for 3% of research staff who have declared a disability. In 2019, we achieved the single biggest
 improvement in one year of any institution (private or public) in the history of the Stonewall
 Workplace Equality Index, climbing 211 places from our 2018 position, to 188. Declared LGBTQ+
 staff comprise 9% of our research community. We are a signatory of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and are implementing a corresponding action plan.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our research infrastructure and facilities reflect our research ambitions and the needs of our staff.
 RKE is led by the Vice-Provost (Research and External Engagement). A Director of the Graduate
 School and a Head of Research Services, provide further institution-wide research leadership and
 support. Research is governed by RKE Committee, Research Integrity and Ethics Committee, and
 Research Degrees Committee, which all report to Senate. RKE Committee is chaired by the Vice-
 Chancellor and is comprised of institutional research leadership, and departmental RKE Leads.
 Research Integrity and Ethics Committee comprises departmental Ethics Representatives who
 oversee data, privacy, and good research practice with the support of an Ethics Officer ensuring
 compliance with the highest standards of research integrity. At a departmental level, Heads of
 Departments have responsibility for delivering the RKE strategy and are supported by RKE Leads
 in its implementation. Departmental leadership is responsible for all elements of RKE, including
 bidding, mentoring, research excellence and impact. We invest in dedicated research support
 services, to facilitate and enhance all research and research-related activity. Research Services
 provide developmental support for the full life-cycle of staff and student research, from inception
 to impact, and manage all research information, to ensure compliance and to inform strategic
 decision making. The services also support all aspects of the PGR experience, through to bidding,
 ensuring compliance with open research, and the delivery and evaluation of impact activity.

 Our physical infrastructure for research has been significantly advanced since 2013/14. Capital
 projects are proposed by Heads of Departments through annual planning, and investment is
 aligned to strategic priorities, new staff capacities, and significant PGR opportunities. Since
 2013/14, we have invested £100m (including a new RIBA-award winning library that opened in
 2017) with dedicated research resources, including PGR and staff space and 14 special
 collections, two of which have since been digitized. We have invested £13m in a creative industries
 hub, the Sir David Bell Building, providing researchers with dedicated film studios and editing
 suites, newsrooms, resources for media, photography and sound production, computer facilities
 and a cinema. Major dedicated research infrastructure investments have been made in
 collaboration with other HEIs, including CUBIC, a research-dedicated 3T Magnetic Resonance
 Imaging scanner facility for the investigation of sensory and cognitive brain function, located at
 Royal Holloway, University of London, and owned and run jointly with Royal Holloway, Brunel and
 Surrey universities. Major upgrades include the research facilities for in vitro cell studies and
 metabolomics in health and disease, adding sought after laboratory equipment such as a Liquid
 Chromatograph Mass Spectrometer (LCMS) and live cell imaging microscopy as well as in silico
 labs for high performance computer modelling of molecular processes. In addition, we have
 invested in an environmental heat chamber to measure physiological responses and performance,
 and forms part of the Metabolic Assessment Unit.

 Our digital infrastructure for RKE has also been significantly expanded. Cloud systems facilitate
 secure storage and transmission of research data between collaborators. We also encourage
 colleagues to make use of existing highly effective and secure repositories including the UK Data
 Archive. In 2015 we invested in PURE, our Current Research Information System, which acts as
 our repository for research outputs and is supported by a dedicated Open Access and Research
 Information Officer. Our in-house AV production team provides production support for researchers
 along with training in the specifics of video and podcast production, and the use of editing software
 to aid the public communication of research.

 Drawing on this institutional leadership and infrastructure, our strategy to grow research income
 has delivered significant results, with over 850 discrete funded projects supporting 121% growth
 in annual research income. We have prioritised bidding through the investment of additional

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 workload allowances of up to 10%, and generous match-funding in the form of VC studentships
 awarded to support external grants since 2014. We have also supported inclusivity through ring-
 fenced studentships for candidates from ODA recipient nations, enhanced match-funding for
 initiatives such as the Daphne Jackson Fellowship, and targeted training and support for ECRs to
 obtain their first external grant. Internal peer-review panels for major grant schemes ensure that
 colleagues bid appropriately to career stage and that a high standard of bidding is maintained
 through selective approval. For all other bids, reciprocal mentoring and anonymised centralised
 peer-review occur prior to submission, which improves quality and supports inclusive practices.
 Dedicated teams of Research Development and Research Impact Officers provide one-to-one
 support for research and KE bidding and grant capture, and the design, delivery and evaluation of
 research impact, respectively. This support is available to all staff, alongside a dedicated annual
 programme of research and KE bidding training, that has been crucial in effecting a step change
 in grant capture. Looking forward, research and knowledge exchange income is a central tenet of
 our RKE Strategy 2020-25 as we seek to grow and diversify grant capture, increasing the capacity
 and profile of our research and knowledge exchange work.




                                                                                             Page 7
