Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Leeds


 1. Context and mission
The University of Leeds is one of the largest higher education institutions in the UK, employing
over 8,700 staff, with over 38,000 students, including 10,000 postgraduate students. Our campus
is truly international, with staff from over 100 countries and around one-quarter of our students
from overseas, encompassing 170 different countries.
The central tenet of the University’s 2015-2020 strategy was ‘investing in knowledge and
opportunity’. The REF period saw an unparalleled period of investment, including £520M in
campus development and £100M in people, building critical mass at all levels to provide research
leadership and succession planning: 110 Anniversary PGR scholarships; 200 University Academic
Fellows (UAFs); 261 professorial-level positions.
The successful implementation of this strategic plan is reflected in our top 100 world university
ranking (QS world rankings), which has increased from 97 th (2014) to 93rd (2020). Our global
outlook is reflected by being ranked the 35 th most international university in the world (THE World
Rankings 2020), while the positive impact of the University is reflected in the University ranking
11th in the world (3rd in the UK) for addressing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (THE
Impact awards 2020).
The University is organised across seven faculties: Arts, Humanities and Cultures; Biological
Sciences; Engineering and Physical Sciences; Environment; Leeds University Business School;
Medicine and Health; and Social Sciences. Our research strategy encourages interdisciplinarity to
deliver novel approaches to critical problems. The University partners with selected organisations
at a range of scales to enable stakeholder engagement and translation of our challenge-led
                                                         research (Figure 1).
                                                         We are members of consortia that
                                                         represent research intensive universities at
                                                         local (White Rose University Consortium),
                                                         regional (N8), national (Russell Group)
                                                         and international (Worldwide Universities
                                                         Network) levels.
                                                         The University is a partner in a number of
                                                         national institutes representing excellence
                                                         in specific disciplines: the Turing institute
                                                         for data science and artificial intelligence,
                                                         where we lead on urban analytics; the
                                                         Henry Royce Institute for advanced
                                                         materials, where we lead atoms to
                                                         devices; the Rosalind Franklin Institute for
                                                         life sciences, where we lead next
                                                         generation chemistry; the National Centre
                                                         for Atmospheric Science, hosted at the
                                                         University; and a joint Postgraduate
                                                         Researcher (PGR) programme with the
                                                         Francis Crick Institute for Biomedical
                                                         Research; and, the UK Met Office

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
We have developed international partnerships, including: a joint school with Southwest Jiaotong
University (SWJTU) to deliver world-class research and teaching in areas of engineering, computer
sciences and transport; strategic partnerships with the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Max
Planck Institute, Kyoto University, Shanghai JiaoTong University, Zhejiang University, and the
African Research Universities Alliance (ARUA)
The University ranks in the top ten for UKRI, GCRF and Newton awards, allowing us to support a
broad and deep research and innovation base that delivers transformational curiosity-driven
fundamental and applied research. This research base is complemented by a strong history of
innovation and entrepreneurship. Over the period, this has been strengthened by Nexus, a £40M
innovation hub, and leading the Leeds City Region participation in the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Regional Entrepreneurship Acceleration Programme (MIT-REAP), a prestigious
programme to foster regional economic growth and social progress. The University was ranked 5 th
in the 2019 Octopus Ventures Entrepreneurial Impact Ranking.
Our commitment to first class, research-led, education has been recognised through the award of
26 National Teaching Fellowships, more than any other institution in the UK. The University was
named the Times/Sunday Times’ University of the Year 2017 and has held a Teaching Excellence
Framework (TEF) gold award since 2017.


 2. Strategy
Delivery of the University research strategy is led by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Research and
Innovation (R+I), supported by a senior management team within the central R+I Service and the
faculty pro-deans R+I; together, these form the core of the University R+I Board. Heads of School
are supported in the implementation of local research strategy by Directors for R+I, plus school
and faculty-level research offices and 22 area-specific R+I Development Managers (RIDMs).
Research strategy advisory boards aligned to major funders, interdisciplinary research and global
research strategy provide research intelligence (Figure 2).




                                                                                           Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




Our 2015-2020 strategy was co-created with staff to develop a clear set of R+I objectives that will
deliver our shared ambition of an inclusive research community that supports research excellence
across the University:
Objective 1: to ensure that the research we undertake supports delivery of the highest quality
outputs. A focus on academic excellence and partnership was supported by the appointment of a
Dean of Research Quality and Impact (2017). Over the period, research awards have increased
from £130.5M (2013/14) to £196M (2019/20), including a 37% increase in new awards and a 70%
increase in awards over £1M in the last four years. This has driven an increase in research quality,
with outputs in the top 10% citation percentile increasing from 20.7% (2014; 860 outputs) to 22.0%
(2018; 1160 outputs), while internationally co-authored outputs increased from 47.4% (2014) to
58% (2019).
The University champions the responsible use of research metrics, being a signatory to DORA and
an advocate for the Leiden Manifesto; this is supported through a joint academic/service research
metrics working group, including the Library’s Research Support Service bibliometrician. The
University developed open access policies for outputs (2014), requiring open access publication
within 90 days of acceptance, and data (2017), and mandates an ORCiD for all researchers,
including PGRs. Together, these actions have supported an increase in both number and
downloads of outputs within the White Rose Research Online (WRRO) open access repository.
Prior to 2013/14 WRRO contained 2,125 outputs, with 664,100 downloads; by July 2020 these
figures had increased 1738% and 1210%, respectively, to 39,072 outputs and 8,703,736
downloads. Ethesis deposits increased four-fold from 1,489 (2013/14) to 6,143 (2018/19).
Objective 2: to promote a vibrant PhD and postdoctoral community. To deliver the research leaders
of tomorrow, we have invested in our PGR cohort, including 110 Leeds Anniversary Research
Scholarships, and hosting 11 Centres for Doctoral Training and Doctoral Training Programmes.
This led to an increase in PGRs from 2090 (2013/14) to 2445 (2017/18). In 2017, the University
launched the Doctoral College, led by the Dean of Doctoral Studies, to continuously improve all
aspects of our PGRs experience. To complement the Doctoral College, the Leeds Doctorate was
launched in 2020 to support PGRs in their studies.




                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Objective 3: to exploit the distinctive research potential of Leeds to address major global
challenges. The 2015-2020 strategy outlined thematic areas addressing global challenges (see
‘Context’ and Figure 3). This has been supported through our success in schemes such as GCRF,
NIHR Global, Newton etc., which allows us to work with 40 countries around the globe. As of May
2020, we have been awarded 84 projects through these routes, with a total value of £46.8M. For
GCRF awards, we are second and third in the UK for value and number of awards, respectively.
To support both individual/unit-level research groups and global challenge themes, we have
developed flagship interdisciplinary research platforms, supported by £500k p.a. pump priming.
Each is co-directed by senior leaders from different faculties, embedding academic excellence and
interdisciplinarity in their missions:


the Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute and the Cultural Institute work together to foster
interdisciplinary research and productive research collaborations with external partners in the
creative and cultural industries. They directly supported successful grant applications totalling
£8.1M in 2019-20, contributing significantly to Leeds’ status as the highest performing University in
AHRC income for the period 2015-2020 (£22.4M);
the Leeds Social Sciences Institute supports the social sciences in framing novel interdisciplinary
and cross-institutional research collaborations. It has over 650 members and houses the ESRC
£1.3M IAA;
the Priestley International Centre for Climate opened in 2016 following a £10M University
investment in response to the global challenge of climate change, bringing together world leading
expertise in climate change research. It comprises over 350 members across all career stages with
an active research portfolio of £75M, including 20 grants worth >£1M (2020);
the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA) was established in 2014 to bring together applied
research groups and data scientists to understand health and human behaviour, casting light on
the action required to tackle a wide range of social and environmental problems. LIDA has a
community of 280 researchers, including 25 Turing Fellows, with 156 of these physically co-
located, and a £61M active research portfolio (2019). It operates an ISO27001 Trusted Research
Environment and hosts the ESRC Consumer Data Research Centre and Heath Data Research
North;
the Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology brings together researchers with the goal of
understanding life in atomic detail. It encompasses 76 academic staff and over 300 researchers,
with a £107M portfolio of research (2019). It is one of only 19 Instruct-ERIC facilities, the pan-
European distributed research infrastructure, supported through a £2.9M investment in state-of-
the-art electron microscopy facilities;
the Bragg Centre for Materials Research is housed in the £96M Sir William Henry Bragg building.
As a founding member of the Henry Royce Institute, it aims to discover, create, and design new
materials by bringing together scientists and engineers across a wide range of disciplines. It
comprises over 210 members across all career stages with an active research portfolio of £82M
(2019)
the Global Food and Environment Institute is an interdisciplinary research community develop
enduring solutions that help bring about transformative change to create a food system that is
socially-just, climate-smart and goes beyond sustainability. It comprises over 344 members across
all career stages with an active research portfolio of £57M (2019).


                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
The University’s focus on addressing global challenges was reflected by our ranking 11 th in the
world (3rd in the UK) in the THE World Impact Rankings 2020. (Figure 4).
                                                            Objective 4: to utilise externally focused
                                                            interdisciplinary research networks with
                                                            the expertise, range and reputation to
                                                            address funding and impact priorities.
                                                            To support our ambitions in this area,
                                                            we appointed a Dean of Interdisciplinary
                                                            Research (IDR) in 2016. Supported by a
                                                            Head of IDR and the 22 R+I
                                                            Development Managers across the
                                                            University, the led an increased focus
                                                            on challenge-led research, including
                                                            two-day ‘Crucible’ workshops for
                                                            academics at different career stages,
                                                            and targeted stakeholder engagement
                                                            opportunities. These have led to an
                                                            increase in high quality IDR activity, e.g.
                                                            the facilitation/integration of cross-
                                                            University activity around antimicrobial
                                                            research led to two significant awards
                                                            worth >£4.2M in 2020; the £5.4M UKRI-
                                                            funded Future Fashion Factory is an
                                                            interdisciplinary international partnership
                                                            between the University and industry to
                                                            create a sustainable textile supply chain.
Our interdisciplinary activity is also supported through membership of the N8 Research Partnership
between eight of the UK’s top 30 universities across the North of England. Major research
programmes include the £16M N8 AgriFood Resilience Programme; the £7.5M N8 Policing
Research Partnership working with 11 police forces; the £1.25M DecarboN8, accelerating the
adoption of low carbon transport solutions; and the £1.6M N8 Industry Innovation Forums
connecting leading businesses with N8 universities.
Objective 5: to develop and support our existing academic staff and appoint new world-class
researchers to deliver research priorities and aspirations. The University has invested significantly
in its research staff over the REF period (see ‘People’ for full details), developing critical mass in
areas of excellence. This includes new development opportunities for all staff, as well as the
recruitment of present/future research leaders, e.g. 200 University Academic Fellows, 21
leadership chairs, and 17 top performer chairs.
Academic integrity is supported through the principles of honesty, rigour, transparency and open
communication, and care and respect for all participants in research. The University fully complies
with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and has its own Policy on Research Integrity.
Research is subject to ethics committee review at local, Faculty and University level. In addition,
we work toward compliance for all partners, e.g., clinical trials research is reviewed by University
and NHS ethics committees. Training and support for research integrity are provided both in
person and through dedicated webpages, alongside robust policies on professional integrity,
whistleblowing, research misconduct, harassment, and bullying.


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Objective 6: to grow our knowledge exchange activity and income by achieving greater
collaboration with key industry partners and innovative companies with high growth potential.
Through the Directors of Research and Innovation Development, and of Commercialisation the
University has grown its knowledge exchange (KE) portfolio across the REF period: HEIF
allocation weighted income increased from £75.4M (2013/14) to £98M (2018/19). This includes
increases in spin-out activity, with turnover and FTEs employed in spin-outs increasing from
£26.4M and 426 (2013/14) to £70.6M and 1,255 (2018/19), respectively. Income from SMEs
increased 68%, from £2.5M (2013/14) to £4.2M (2018/19), while income from IP increased 30%
from £0.76M to £1M.
The Nexus innovation hub co-locates a community of innovators with the University R+I Service,
including a dedicated team who work with businesses to create effective partnerships. Since its
opening in 2019, Nexus member businesses have raised £10.8M in collaborative funding awards
with the University; created over 115 new jobs, including 23 for University of Leeds graduates;
hosted 74 University of Leeds students on internships or placements; and, put on events that over
7,000 people have attended.
The University plays an active role in driving innovation and entrepreneurship at the regional level.
We led the Leeds City region participation in MIT-REAP (2017-2020), an entrepreneurship
programme supporting research translation into regional economic good, with the DVC: R+I one of
two champions for the programme. The programme has led to two initiatives, LEAP and BUILD,
actively supporting 100 local entrepreneurs, including through Nexus community membership.
Student innovation and entrepreneurship is supported through SPARK, also located in Nexus.
SPARK engages 1,500 current students and recent graduates p.a., creating 80 new businesses.
Over the REF period, SPARK-supported businesses generated over £19.6m, created 513 jobs and
secured external investment of £7.1m. In 2015, we received the THE Entrepreneurial University of
the Year, the Guardian award for Enterprise at a University, and the Lloyds Bank award for
University Entrepreneurship, while the Head of SPARK received the UK National Enterprise
Champion Award. To support ECR entrepreneurship, the University launched the Michael Beverley
Fellowship scheme in 2020, supported through a significant alumnus donation. This five-year
programme provides intensive training, support and mentoring for 60 ECRs to develop the skills to
capitalise on their entrepreneurial aspirations.
To further grow our KE activities, a Director for Research Integration and Advancement was
appointed in 2016. They lead a corporate relationships team that works at board-level with £1Bn+
annual turnover businesses, and a major initiatives team who support large-scale strategic
research investments. Together, these teams enable stakeholder engagement, forming
interdisciplinary teams including both internal and external partners to address major challenges.
Examples include the Institute for High-Speed Rail and Systems Integration, a £75M collaboration
between the University, West Yorkshire combined authority, Government, and industry scheduled
to open in 2021 prior to covid-related delays.
Ensuring a clear professional framework for business collaborations is fundamental to success.
The Business Engagement Framework was developed in 2019 to address this, seamlessly linking
external partners with appropriate academic teams to address their challenges (Figure 5).
A Public Engagement (PE) team was formed in 2014, moving into R+I Services in 2019 reflecting
our commitment to public communication of research. We signed the Manifesto for Public
Engagement in 2015, renewing in 2018. Since 2014, 34 PE Fellowship have been supported by
the University, with 10 fellows subsequently taking on PE leadership roles. Three fellows have

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
been finalists in the national Engage Awards, with one winner. To further recognise the importance
of PE and outreach, they activities were added to promotion criteria in 2016; 35% of all academic
promotion applications included PE in 2019. In 2015, ‘Be Curious’ was launched; an annual event
linking the public with the University’s research and impact activities with over 1,000 attendees p.a.




Translation of research outputs to impact has been overseen by the Dean for Research Quality
and Impact, through the creation of a University Impact Group, local impact champions and
managers, and a centrally supported University impact strategy. Funds to support research
translation include over £270k p.a. innovation funding across the Faculties, 6 IAA awards worth
£382k p.a., plus access to central strategic development funds for larger initiatives.


 3. People
People sit at the heart of our Strategy. We are committed to a fully diverse, equal opportunity
workplace supporting and developing staff to their full potential. This was recognised in 2011
through a Vitae institutional HR Excellence in Research Award. This award was successfully
retained in 2019, with the review commending our ‘commitment to continuous enhancement of
policies, practices, and development provision for researchers’.
Staff recruitment is planned through the annual Integrated Planning Exercise, providing an
opportunity for Schools and flagship research platforms to feed into strategy. Over the REF period,
our recruitment strategy included targeted schemes to build critical mass in areas of research
excellence (e.g. 17 top performer and 21 leadership chairs), and develop future research leaders
for succession planning (e.g. 200 UAFs).
Over the REF period, our academic T+R staff cohort has increased by 16%, from 1430FTE
(2013/14) to 1665FTE (2017/18).
We actively encourage and support staff, present and future, to apply for fellowships to support
their research development. Over the REF period, University staff have been awarded 11 UKRI


                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Future Leaders Fellowships (£12.3M), 106 UKRI-funded fellowships across all career stages
(£50.1M), 18 ERC fellowships (£32.8M) and 86 Marie-Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships (£14.8M).
To develop a diverse researcher community, the University Equality and Inclusion unit oversaw the
development, delivery and monitoring of an E+I Strategy to “attract and retain excellent people
from across the world to enable the University and the people within it to fulfil their potential”.
Commitment to this strategy was demonstrated through development of the University’s first E+I
Framework in 2014, supported through complementary University policies, including: Dignity and
Mutual Respect; Equality and Inclusion Policy; Building Disability Confidence; Trans Equality Policy
Statement; Policy on Support for Pregnant Students and Students with very young children; Policy
on Support for Students who are Parents or Carers
The University’s ‘Leeds Gender Framework’ is our strategic approach to gender equality. An
Athena SWAN employer, we offer development programmes and services designed to support
female staff across our University: our Women Rising Programme supports 20 female PGRs and
PDRAs p.a. across engineering and physical sciences, addressing career development challenges
for female ECRs; Springboard is a three-month personal development programme for women in
the workplace; Aurora is a leadership development programme run by Advance HE to support mid-
career women in academic and professional roles - since 2016, 76 staff members have undertaken
this programme.
The University holds a bronze Athena Swan award, with administrative units holding individual
awards, including the first gold award for a School of Medicine. Developmental and support groups
for women underpin this work and include the Women@Leeds Network; Women of Achievement
Awards; Aurora; Leeds Female Leaders Network; Women Rising Programme; and Women in
Leadership Roles Forum.
The University’s REF preparations were undertaken in accordance with our E+I principles, as set
out in our REF2021 Code of Practice. Processes and policies are common to all staff involved, with
no Faculty- or School-specific variations. All University staff undertake E+I training as part of their
staff development, with individuals involved in REF2021 decision making undertaking additional
training. Equality impact assessments at periodic stages confirm that our processes did not
introduce any bias in the way individuals/groups were treated, and that the submission reflects the
diversity of the eligible staff community.


Staff Development
All new staff attend a University Induction day, to welcome and orientate themselves in their new
role and workplace. They are supported to work in the manner that best suits them, through
schemes including study leave; flexible and/or remote working; support for staff with caring
responsibilities, ill-health, or other equality-related circumstances. These have been particularly
important to support staff through covid-19.
Organisational Development and Professional Learning (ODPL) support staff development. In
2016, the University launched its Leadership Excellence Behaviours, a programme of career-stage
specific courses supporting leadership development. Since 2016, over 2,200 attendees have
benefited from this programme (Figure 6).
Our alumni and donor community actively support staff development through both philanthropy and
sharing skills and experience. Since 2010, the Making a World of Difference Campaign has
received over £107M in contributions, supporting initiatives including 156 enterprise scholarships


                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
for student businesses; 67 PGR scholarships; 34 Beaumont awards for students whose work has
the potential to help others; 10 members of the academy of cultural fellows to spend time at Leeds;
34 Cheney Fellowships to enable talented international researchers to spend time at the university.




Technical Staff: The University is a Member of the Science Council’s Employer Champions
Programme and signatory to the Technician’s Commitment, supporting skills and career
development of the 400+ technicians across the University. Activities include appointment of 5
Technician Champions; a film to promote the role technicians play in University life; and multiple
networking events. HEaTED Membership (2019), provides access to technician-specific training
courses, with an initial cohort of eight technicians supported for professional registration. In 2020,
the university became an official Partner Affiliate with the National Technician Development
Centre.
Early career researchers: ECRs are a vital part of the University R+I community and our future
research leaders. As such, over the REF period we have developed a range support and
development opportunities to create an inclusive, vibrant community for this vital part of our
researchers (Figure 7).
The Laidlaw scholarships scheme provided leadership development for 131 undergraduates during
the REF period. Final year undergraduates undertake a research project, and there is the
opportunity for research internships to put into practice their research skills. Student
entrepreneurship is support through the SPARK team within Nexus, allowing students access to
members’ enterprise and innovation expertise (see ‘Strategy’ section).
Our PGR cohort has increased by 15% over the REF period, from 2090 (2013/14) to 2445
(2017/18), including 110 Leeds anniversary PGR scholarships. In 2019/20, the PGR cohort came
from 106 countries, with 35% of PGRs from overseas. To further develop and support PGRs, the
University launched the Doctoral College in 2017 and the Leeds Doctorate in 2020. Together, they
ensure a consistent, high-quality experience for all our PGRs, supporting them to develop their
future careers. The 2016 refurbishment of the Edward Boyle Library created a dedicated Research
Hub and Researcher Support Service.


                                                                                                Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
ODPL supports ECRs through courses on mentoring, attracting research income, applying for
funding schemes, partnership with industry, leadership, commercialisation, and the University’s
‘Next Generation Researcher’ programme. From 2019 all ECRs have 10 days protected for
participation in development activities as well as an assigned academic mentor.
The ‘Great Minds’ programme launched in 2014 recruited 200 University Academic Fellows (UAFs)
who follow a five-year development programme leading to a permanent Associate Professor
position. UAF recruitment is targeted to support strategic investments (e.g. flagship interdisciplinary
research platforms), and membership of national institutes. Forty-four UAFs have graduated early,
moving directly into senior academic positions, including one as full professor.
We proactively support all ECRs, including UAFs, to apply for independent fellowships helping
them to develop their independent research careers. Between 2014-2020, 180 ECRs have been
awarded independent fellowships.




Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
The University implemented both the 2008 Concordat’s seven principles and the 2019 Concordat’s
three principles, listed below. Our Concordat implementation plan was developed through open
meetings between researchers and senior staff and is championed by the University Executive
through a researcher-centric Researcher Development Steering Group, including ECR
representation. This provides continuous review and evaluation, including external assurance
through our Vitae HR Excellence Award.
Principle 1: Excellent research requires a supportive and inclusive research culture. The Equality
Policy Unit oversees development and implementation of E+I policies This work has led to gender
balancing of interview panels, an increase in international research staff etc, and was recognised
by a bronze Athena Swan award at the institutional level, with individual units holding one gold, five
silver and two bronze awards.
Principle 2: Researchers are recruited, employed and managed under conditions that recognise
and value their contributions. Our ‘Guidance for employing research staff’ informs recruitment,


                                                                                              Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
selection, development, and recognition practices. It has delivered, e.g., research representation
on University and Faculty level groups; increased recognition of researcher contributions through
named researcher status.
The University promotion process was re-developed in 2016, resulting in a clearer, more expansive
articulation of the behaviours required at each level. This included inclusion of criteria around PE,
impact, commercialisation, and internationalisation. In addition, a Professorial-level pathway
recognising academic leadership was introduced: since its introduction, 20% of Professorial level
promotions (37/186) have taken this route.
Principle 3: Professional and career development are integral to enabling researchers to develop
their full potential. Researcher development is supported through the staff review and development
scheme (SRDS) and annual academic meetings (AAMs), as appropriate. The University introduced
protected ‘development time’ for all staff, plus resources including peer-support groups; dedicated
consultants and coaches; support for fellowship applications; the opportunity to contribute to
University and Faculty level groups; funding workshops; leadership training. The Career Architect
programme was launched in 2015, supporting career development for fixed term staff, including
support for personal development planning. Over 80% of attendees have moved on from
postdoctoral research roles into other careers within research.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Our 2015-2020 strategy set out to achieve ‘significant increases in research quality, income and
impact’. To support this, the University invested in researchers (see ‘People’), flagship
interdisciplinary platforms, and the professional support service staff to support delivery (see
‘Strategy’).
Through active staff development and expectation setting, as well as investment in infrastructure
and facilities, we have achieved a substantial increase in research income over the REF period.
Research grants and contract research awards increased by 33%, from £130.5M (2013/14) to
£196M (2019/20). We undertake substantial contract research, averaging over £55M p.a. Over the
same period, awards over £1M have increased by 70%, reflecting our ambition and leadership of
large programmes
The central R+I Service (RIS) and Faculty-based R+I Offices work together to support R+I across
the University. Overseen by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: R+I, RIS activity is led through four
directors and three institution-level Deans, each tasked with an aspect of our R+I portfolio: R+I
Development; Commercialisation; Nexus; Research Integration and Advancement; Research
Quality and Impact; Interdisciplinary Research; and the Leeds Doctoral College. The RIS senior
management team are members of the R+I Board, chaired by the DVC R+I, alongside faculty pro-
deans R+I and appropriate heads of professional services. The R+I Board provides a forum for
strategic R+I discussions, ensuring academic input into strategy, objective setting and delivering
success.
Integrated teams support development of areas of research excellence, linking central and local
services. This includes specialised advice on particular research areas/funders; corporate
relationship managers who develop the breadth and depth of our partnerships with major
corporates (£1Bn turnover p.a.); the major research initiative team who support development of
large-scale research projects, such as the Institute of High-Speed Rail and Systems Integrations;
an interdisciplinary research team who support the generation of novel interdisciplinary
collaborations, leveraging the breadth and depth of research expertise to address global

                                                                                            Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
challenges such as Net Zero. Translation of research outputs to impact and communication with
stakeholder groups is supported through dedicated teams for commercialisation; intellectual
property; public engagement; policy engagement; and knowledge transfer. Finally, regulatory and
legal requirements are met through the quality and policy, and contracts teams.
Research bidding is handled through our bespoke grants management system KRISTAL, while
research outputs and professional activities are logged through Symplectic. Consistent with our
open access policy, outputs and data are then made publicly available online through White Rose
Research online, ensuring our work reaches those most likely to benefit from it. These data,
alongside impact and HR information, are brought together through our bespoke Institutional
Research and Impact System (IRIS).


Infrastructure and facilities supporting research and enabling impact across the institution
The University Estate comprises over 300 academic and residential buildings. Over the REF period
the University invested significantly in its research environment, including over £367M in
infrastructure and facilities to support research. Major investments include the £96M Sir William
Henry Bragg building, a home for our engineering and physical sciences research, and the £40M
Nexus innovation hub. Other significant investments include: £6.4M for an IT data centre and
network infrastructure; £32M for refurbishment of Biological Sciences buildings; £36M for
refurbishment of Medical Sciences buildings; £10M for the Priestley International Centre for
Climate; £4M for the Institute of Transport Studies. To complement our infrastructure investment,
the University has invested in equipment, including electron microscopy within the Astbury centre
(£2.9M); pre-clinical and clinical MRI scanners within medical sciences (£2M). In addition, the
Henry Royce Institute has supported x-ray spectroscopy (£2M) and the Royce deposition system
(£2M), both located within the Bragg Centre for Materials Research. Working through the N8, the
University ensures optimal sharing of publicly funded research assets, ranging from the new
Centre of Excellence in Computationally Intensive Research (N8CIR), to the 4000+ entries in the
N8 equipment database.
The University has four libraries on its main site, plus a Clinical Sciences library at St James’
University Hospital. Over the REF period, these libraries have seen over £50M investment,
including the opening of the Laidlaw Library (2015), and a refurbishment of the Edward Boyle
Library (2017). The latter included creation of a dedicated Research Support Service and
Research Hub to encourage and facilitate interdisciplinary research.
Together, the library buildings provide access to over 2.7M physical volumes and 0.5M ebooks.
Over the REF period, library visits have increased from 1.8M (2014/15) to 2.8M (2018/19). The
library houses several special collections, providing a rich resource for staff, students, and the
wider research community through our Special Collections Network. Five of our special collections
are designated by Arts Council England for their international research significance. In 2018/19
there were over 2,100 visits to the Special Collections Research Centre. The Brotherton
Fellowships support researchers immediately post-PhD to work with the collections, with the
explicit aim of leading to successful larger research grant applications.
In 2015, a £2M investment saw the creation of Treasures of the Brotherton Gallery, which
alongside the Stanley & Audrey Burton Gallery, are free, public galleries that provide access to our
exceptional collections of fine art, artefacts, rare books and manuscripts. The galleries receive
more than 20,000 visitors per year and are a key part of our PE strategy, including as part of the
‘BeCurious’ festival.

                                                                                              Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
The University libraries are part of the White Rose Libraries consortium, formed between the
libraries of the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield and York, creating a shared institutional research
repository to advance the agendas of the three institutions. In 2018, White Rose Libraries was the
winner of Times Higher “THELMA” for Outstanding Library Team. The consortium is also the
governing body for White Rose University Press, an open access digital publisher of peer-reviewed
academic journals and books. Since its creation in 2016, 8 books and 5 journals have been
published through White Rose University Press, achieving view/download rates averaging over 20-
times the dissemination expected through the traditional print run model.
Beyond the main site, the University has invested significantly in theme-specific research sites:
Spen Farm, Leeds Innovation and Infrastructure Park (IIP), and the Wolfson Centre for Applied
Health Research are all large-scale investments within the REF period providing world-leading
research facilities. Development at Spen Farm supports our biological and environmental research,
including an £11.4M investment in the centre for innovation excellence in livestock, a collaboration
between twelve of the UK’s leading livestock research institutions and industry partners spanning
the food supply chain. The IIP is a £23M development of a large-scale industrial research facility in
the south-east of Leeds. Once completed, it will house our Institute for High-Speed Rail and
Systems Integration (IHSRSI, £50M), the Centre for Infrastructure Materials (£12.2M), and the
EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotics Systems (£5.5M). IHSRSI will be supported
through £29M of industry co-investment, £11M from government via UKRPIF, and £13M from the
West Yorkshire Combined Authority. The Wolfson Centre for Applied Health Research is a £3M
joint venture between the Universities of Leeds and Bradford, and the Bradford Institute for Health
Research, a unique research partnership between the primary and secondary care NHS Trusts in
Bradford and Airedale.
The University’s investment in research infrastructure has led to a significant increase in external
users. HE-BCI data for income from equipment and facilities increased from £2.39M (2013/14) to
£18.78M (2018/19), placing the University 1 st in the HE-BCI ranking for this category.
In line with our commitment to a fully diverse, equal opportunity workplace, the University has
actively worked to create a research environment that is equal to all. Over the REF period we have
invested £6.8M in physical adjustments to our estate, enhancing access to our research facilities.
In addition to physical adjustments, the Research and Innovation Board monitors research activity
against protected characteristics. Working groups have been established to improve gender
equality in research, as well as the overall research culture.




                                                                                              Page 13
