Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Kent

 1. Context and mission

 The University of Kent was founded in 1965 as a new kind of civic university with an
 interdisciplinary ethos that would enable our research community to venture beyond traditional
 disciplinary boundaries to address research questions of regional, national, and international
 importance. This interdisciplinary ethos has endured, and is now complemented by a commitment
 to research with the potential to achieve significant cultural, economic, and social impact. A key
 strand in our mission as a civic university is to serve as a cultural and socio-economic hub for the
 Kent and Medway region. A major step-change in this engagement with the region since 2014
 was the opening in 2020 on our Canterbury campus of the Kent and Medway Medical School
 (KMMS), in partnership with Canterbury Christ Church University. KMMS is an important addition
 to our broader research and education portfolio in health, social care, and wellbeing. That portfolio
 includes the East Kent Community Education Provider Network, the Computational Biology
 Centre, the Personal Social Services Research Unit (PSSRU), the Tizard Centre, and the Centre
 for Health Services Studies (CHSS). The latter hosts the National Institute for Health Research
 (NIHR) Research Design Service South East, leads the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration,
 Kent Surrey, and Sussex (ARCKSS), and has research expertise in public health, primary care,
 health policy, health psychology, and palliative care. In addition to health, social care, and
 wellbeing, our research strengths are reflected in our three recently established Signature
 Research Themes – Environment, Food Systems, and Natural Resources; Future Human; and
 Migration and Movement – as well as in our four research institutes and numerous research
 centres.

 The Kent and Medway area includes pockets of significant social and economic deprivation,
 particularly along the coastal belt. To address these challenges, and to develop the Thames
 Estuary Production Corridor, we work closely with regional partners. These include: the Beaney
 House of Art and Knowledge (Canterbury); Discovery Park (Sandwich); Chatham Historic
 Dockyard Trust (Medway); Canterbury Cathedral (with which we signed a memorandum of
 understanding in 2013); and the Canterbury and District University of the Third Age. The University
 is home to the Gulbenkian arts complex – an Arts Council England National Portfolio Organisation
 – and the award-winning Colyer-Fergusson concert hall, as well as two other National Portfolio
 Organisations: Cement Fields (formerly the Whitstable Biennial) and People United.

 Beyond our regional and national focus, our International Partnerships directorate manages the
 University’s International Visiting Academic Network, and coordinates events for the Global
 Research Opportunities Workshop. Since 2014, our international partnership activities have
 enabled a range of joint seed-funding programmes, including the Kent-Ghent call, which has
 supported 45 research projects. We have recently launched an Interregional Internationalisation
 Initiative (3i) with the universities of Ghent, Leuven, and Lille. Our international joint doctoral
 programmes include: the EU-funded Text and Event in Early Modern Europe (TEEME), with
 partner institutions in the Czech Republic, Germany, and Portugal; and MOVES: Migration and
 Modernity: Historical and Cultural Challenges. In addition to our two main campuses in Canterbury
 and Medway, we also benefit from two specialist postgraduate centres on the Continent: the
 Brussels School of International Studies and the Paris School of Arts and Culture, as well as the
 Kent-Paris Research Institute (a collaboration with Columbia University).

 Having grown significantly over the past half-century, the University now consists of over 18,000
 students (20% of whom are postgraduates) and an academic staff base of 952.82 FTE, of whom
 73.2% are on REF-eligible Education and Research (E&R) contracts and 26.8% on Education,
 Scholarship, and Professional Practice (ES&P) contracts. In addition, we employ 251 research-
 only staff, of whom 35 are independent and thus eligible for submission to the REF. Our academic
 workforce profile reflects our dual-intensity commitment to research and education, and to
 research-informed teaching in which our students are active participants. The breadth and depth
 of our research portfolio is reflected in our submitting 26 Units of Assessment to REF2021,
 including 84 impact case studies.

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In 2019-20, the University undertook a large-scale reorganisation (Organising for Success),
 designed in part to ensure that our interdisciplinary approach to research is appropriately
 supported by our institutional structures in a 21st-century context. Our research and teaching
 activities are now housed within six academic Divisions: Arts and Humanities; Computing,
 Engineering and Mathematical Sciences; Human and Social Sciences; Kent Business School;
 Law, Society and Social Justice; and Natural Sciences. Prior to this reorganisation, the University’s
 academic units consisted of 19 single or multi-subject Schools and 3 Centres, within three
 Faculties: Humanities; Sciences; and Social Sciences. Our new Divisions are fully integrated multi-
 and interdisciplinary structures with localised professional service teams as well as Divisional
 academic teams working across Schools and Departments. Our Divisional Directors of Research
 and Innovation and their teams work closely with our central Research and Innovation Services
 (RIS) team, to support research both within and across Divisions. In addition to the various Schools
 and Departments within the six Divisions, our researchers also benefit from 4 research institutes
 (three of which were established in 2020) and over 50 research centres. Our research institutes
 are: the Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology (DICE), which received a Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize in 2019; the Institute of Biotechnology and Molecular Medicine (IBaMM); the
 Institute of Cyber Security for Society (iCSS); and the Institute of Cultural and Creative Industries
 (iCCi), which will build on our 2018 memorandum of understanding with Arts Council England.

 2. Strategy

 Enabling and actualising impact
 At the heart of our institutional research strategy is the recognition that cutting-edge 21st-century
 research needs to address global challenges, and to achieve a positive impact socially,
 economically, and culturally. Our University Strategy 2025 places the emphasis squarely on
 socially transformative interdisciplinary research across our institutional portfolio. Our three
 University-wide Signature Research Themes reflect areas of particular strength in interdisciplinary
 work, as well as our strategic priorities. These themes are supported by central resource (£150k
 per annum plus six fully-funded PhD Studentships per annum), and are designed to be both
 dynamic and responsive. In addition, we are supporting five new University-wide research
 networks that have been developed alongside our SRTs since 2014. These networks are: Artificial
 Intelligence in the Public Interest; Conflict, Security, Rights, and Violence; Digital Culture (these
 three include iCSS); Heritage, Technologies, and Futures; and Inequalities and Diversity. With the
 opening of our Medical School in 2020, we are also in a strong position to develop further our
 research profile in health and wellbeing, complementing well-established strengths in social care.

 The University is an active member of the Universities Policy Engagement Network, and our
 researchers have contributed to the growth in research evidence being used by national policy-
 makers. Recent examples include: one of our researchers being invited to sit on the panel of
 experts convened for the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee in 2019 to consider
 how science and technology can enable healthier living in old age; and another of our researchers
 serving as an expert witness for both the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse and the
 Scottish Child Abuse Inquiry (2016-20). Our support for impactful research sits alongside our
 longstanding commitment to public engagement with research, reflected in the Kent Public
 Engagement with Research Network. With funding from the UKRI scheme Strategic Support to
 Expedite Embedding Public Engagement with Research, we have worked closely with the National
 Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement to create an action plan for the further development
 of our infrastructure and our support for researchers to engage with the public.

 Our Medway campus is home to Kent and Medway Television (KMTV), a public service OFCOM-
 regulated television broadcaster. Part-owned by the University, this station transmits locally to the
 county of Kent and to 13 million households across the UK through the wider local television
 network. The opportunity to create research documentaries, as well as educational programmes
 and events, that can reach a mass audience has established a unique pathway to impact for our
 researchers, both regionally and nationally. Our ‘Think Kent’ programme curates all events and
 activities designed for a non-specialist audience. The University participates in several national
 and international festivals, including Being Human, Pint of Science, and Soapbox Science. Our
                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Public Engagement with Research Fund enables our researchers to establish relationships with
 potential research beneficiaries and to test their ideas, often in preparation for research funding
 applications. The Fund has supported the development of over 60 projects since 2016, including
 a Festival of Ideas at Canterbury Cathedral.

 To enhance the impact of our research, we have embedded knowledge, systems, and processes
 within our institutional structures. Examples include: an annual University-wide Maximise Your
 Research Impact conference; bespoke impact training through the University-wide Early Career
 Researcher Network; regular sessions on achieving research impact delivered by the University’s
 Office for Scholarly Communication; and one-to-one training and support for staff seeking to
 achieve impact provided by the impact team in our Research and Innovation Services department.
 Since 2014, we have invested over £300k from central University funds to support research with
 the potential to achieve significant impact. We have also invested in impact capture software
 provided by Vertigo Ventures, including training for all our researchers. We have established a
 University-level Impact Strategy Group to share best practice across the institution, and we employ
 two full-time Research Impact Officers within our central RIS team.

 In 2018, the University signed a memorandum of understanding with Arts Council England to work
 together on research in arts, health, and wellbeing, and to promote the engagement of children
 and young adults in the Kent and Medway region with arts and culture, explicitly addressing
 inequalities of opportunity. In 2019, the University was awarded £4.3 million from the Department
 for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport’s Cultural Development Fund, administered by Arts Council
 England on behalf of a partnership delivering the Thames Estuary Production Corridor vision. This
 resource is supporting the development of cultural infrastructure, training, and capacity building
 for local businesses, and the creation of over 500 creative industry jobs, while also providing skills
 and qualifications to over 200 workers and 60 apprenticeship opportunities for young people in the
 region. In order to lead in the development of collaborations between HEIs and regional
 cultural organisations and networks such as the Kent Cultural Transformation Board and
 the South East Creative Economy Network, we have recently partnered with other HEIs to
 form the South-East Cultural Innovation Forum. Established in 2020 to build capacity in culture
 and creativity, the University’s Institute of Cultural and Creative Industries (iCCi) supports our
 ambitions to be a key partner in Medway’s strategic repositioning as a Creative City, with its bid
 to be the UK City of Culture in 2025. The launch of iCCi has been supported by £608k in central
 funding. Partnerships developed with industry and national bodies such as the Creative Industries
 Federation are opening up new opportunities for innovative collaborative research with the
 potential for significant impact over the next decade, as is our engagement with Creative Estuary.

 Research integrity
 Reflecting our institutional commitment to maintaining the highest standards of research
 excellence and integrity, we uphold all the principles in the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (UUK, 2012; revised in 2019), and support our researchers to ensure that they conduct
 their research with the relevant ethical and legal standards through our Research Integrity: Code
 of Ethical Practice for Research Policy. The University’s Research Ethics and Governance
 Committee (REGC) regulates and monitors the work of the Research Ethics Advisory Groups
 (REAGs) within our academic Divisions. (Prior to the establishment of the Divisional structure in
 2020, our REAGs sat at Faculty level.) To ensure the highest principles of ethical integrity, the
 REGC reports directly to Senate and thence to the University Ethics Committee, with a report for
 note being received by the University Research and Innovation Board.

 Our Code of Practice for the Investigation of Allegations of Misconduct in Research sets out
 examples of poor research practice that can lead to research misconduct, and the procedures for
 the investigation of allegations of misconduct. The University has a whistleblowing process that
 enables concerns regarding research integrity or research misconduct to be raised anonymously
 and then formally investigated by the REGC.




                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Open research
 As a civic university, we believe that open research enhances the sharing of leading-edge
 knowledge and thus creates greater opportunities to achieve socially beneficial transformation.
 Since 2014, our commitment to open research has been demonstrated by our being the second
 HEI in the UK to establish an Office for Scholarly Communication (OSC). Our OSC supports
 researchers with all aspects of open research across the research lifecycle. Training is provided
 for our researchers on copyright, intellectual property, and engagement with the media. The OSC
 participates regularly in national and international debates on metadata, metrics, and open access.
 For the three-year term 2017-20, it was also represented on the LIBER Innovative Metrics Working
 Group. The University is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment,
 and subscribes to the principles of the Leiden Manifesto. In 2019, we hosted the first UK Scholarly
 Communications Conference and also co-authored the Metric Tide Report.

 Our Open Access (OA) and Data Management policies mandate OA via any route and facilitate
 this through the Kent Academic Repository (containing 57,466 items, a third of which are openly
 available) and the Kent Data Repository. Since 2014, we have invested £968k in OA, including
 institutional funding of £327k in addition to UKRI grants and contributions to community initiatives.
 OA is strongly encouraged for all outputs, and extends beyond the OA REF requirements. It is
 embedded in our research skills training from undergraduate level upwards and also in the
 management of our central Templeman Library resources. We participate in many Read and
 Publish agreements.

 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Our commitment to interdisciplinary research is a longstanding one, and a core part of our
 institutional mission. To enable our researchers to take full advantage of regional, national, and
 international opportunities for interdisciplinary research, in 2020 we established three University-
 wide Signature Research Themes, these being supported by a University-level leadership team
 from across all six academic Divisions. The importance of interdisciplinary research is also
 reflected in our being a founding member of the Eastern Academic Research Consortium (Eastern
 ARC), a strategic collaboration between the universities of Kent, Essex, and East Anglia launched
 in 2013-14. Eastern ARC’s Enabling Innovation: Research to Application (EIRA) network
 (supported since 2017 by the UKRI Connecting Capability Fund) has established a collaborative
 environment focused on delivering knowledge exchange and research support to industry. In its
 first five years, Eastern ARC’s three research themes were Digital Humanities, Synthetic Biology,
 and Quantitative Social Science. In that period, the consortium funded 21 studentships and 9
 fellowships, organised over 60 workshops and other events, resulting in more than £21.4 million
 in research and innovation funding. In its second phase, starting in 2020, the consortium is
 focusing on four areas of joint strength that address the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals:
 Health Systems, Social Care and Wellbeing; Human Rights, Equality and Conflict; Sustainability,
 Natural Resources and Food; and Culture, Connection and Creativity. It has appointed 14 thematic
 champions across the three institutions to facilitate this, and has already provided seed funding
 for 11 collaborative projects. Eastern ARC has also launched a research mentoring scheme, and
 is coordinating the sharing of the three universities’ equipment and special collections, including
 the British Cartoon Archive (Kent), the Essex Collection of Art from Latin America, and the Robert
 and Lisa Sainsbury Collection (UEA). We lead the NIHR ARCKSS, a collaboration of universities
 and NHS and social care organisations. This £13.5 million investment by NIHR, NHS, and local
 authorities is strengthening research activity, capacity, and care services in the region.

 3. People

 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy is designed to ensure that Kent is an inclusive, diverse, and attractive place
 to work. We seek to recruit academics with the greatest potential to produce world-leading
 research and the highest-quality research-informed educational experience. Our Staff
 Recruitment Policy provides an overarching framework for the recruitment of staff, and promotes
 equality of opportunity. All members of recruitment and other staffing-related panels are required

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 to undertake EDI training. The majority of our academic staff are appointed at lecturer level,
 reflecting our commitment to supporting the next generation of researchers. Since 2014, we have
 appointed 330 academic staff on Education and Research (E&R) contracts, 170 staff on
 Education, Scholarship and Professional Practice (ES&P) contracts, and 41 staff on Academic
 Teaching Only contracts. The University has also engaged 570 individuals onto its Graduate
 Teaching Programme. As a result of the University-wide Academic Workforce Profile Project in
 2018, which was established in order to deliver on our commitment to anti-casualisation and to
 ensuring the appropriate balance between E&R and ES&P staff across our academic units, we
 created 14 new ES&P posts for staff hitherto on non-substantive contracts. The result of the project
 reduced our non-substantive academic staff base by 66%.

 For both E&R and ES&P staff appointed to entry-level positions, the standard probationary period
 is three years. All Probationers are supported by a Probation Supervisor. Those Probationers who
 are required to complete the Postgraduate Certificate of Higher Education also benefit from a
 Mentor as well as significant teaching relief during their probationary period: normally a 50%
 reduction in year one, 25% in year two, and 10% in year three. In the case of Probationers who
 have already been awarded the PGCHE or a similar qualification on appointment, the standard
 teaching relief is 10% over the three years of the probationary period. This teaching reduction
 supports ECRs in developing their research profiles, and is complemented by additional research
 funding at School/Department level for ECRs as well as research mentoring. Our new Divisional
 research committees are required to include ECR representatives. Once our academic staff have
 passed Probation, they are supported through an annual individual appraisal (‘Reflect, Plan,
 Develop’) process. In addition, annual Individual Research Planning (IRP) meetings are arranged
 for all staff on E&R contracts. All academic staff are eligible to apply for University-funded study
 leave on a regular basis. The accrual period for one term’s internally funded study leave is
 currently 72 weeks. Applications for study leave are supported by subject-specific research teams,
 and are also planned at the annual IRPs.

 In order to support the career development of our academic staff, in 2019 the University
 established its new Academic Career Map (ACM), a fine-grained framework setting out University-
 wide expectations for academic staff at all stages in their career, from Probationer and ECR
 through to Professor. The ACM includes indicative examples of activities, standards, and
 behaviours, and is designed to incentivise academic staff to undertake the highest-quality
 research, with an emphasis on external engagement, impact, and research integrity. It also
 highlights the importance of good citizenship, and of working collaboratively and supportively.
 Since 2014, 190 academic staff have been promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 105 to
 Reader, and 68 to Professor. Our current professorial profile is 38% female and 62% male, while
 14% of our Readers and Professors are black, Asian, and minority ethnic.

 The University’s Human Resources Leadership and Organisational Development team offers a
 range of regular development programmes designed for academic staff at various career stages.
 Courses offered since 2014 have included the Leadership for Areas of Significant Responsibility
 and the New Senior Leaders programmes, with 155 academic staff (of whom 48% were female)
 having been enrolled on these two programmes in that period. Also launched since 2014, the
 Aurora programme addresses career progression barriers faced primarily by female academics.
 In 2013, the University achieved the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award,
 reflecting our commitment to implementing the Researcher Development Concordat and the
 European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for their Recruitment. The University
 successfully retained this Award in 2020, following its six-year review, validating our long-term
 commitment to the career development of our researchers.

 The health and wellbeing of our staff and students is an absolute priority, and this is an area that
 has received significant additional resource since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Support
 is provided by the University Counselling Service, to which staff are able to self-refer and from
 which they are entitled to up to five individual counselling sessions. The University’s Occupational
 Health and Wellbeing Team provides guidance to line managers on how to support staff wellbeing.
 The annual ‘Belong and Grow’ week of events led by our HR Learning and Organisational

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Development team includes sessions covering topics such as EDI, Unconscious Bias, and
 Wellbeing Awareness. Recent events have included an International Day against Homophobia,
 Transphobia and Biphobia, a Staff Network Day, and a Deaf Awareness Week.

 Support and training of research students
 Providing the requisite support and training for our research students is one of the University’s
 highest priorities, and is led by our Graduate and Researcher College (GRC), which in 2020
 replaced our Graduate School (founded in 2008) in order to join up our postgraduate support with
 researcher development across the whole academic life cycle. Like its predecessor, the GRC
 regularly evaluates its programmes and activities based on student and staff feedback to ensure
 that they continue to provide the highest-quality postgraduate research experience in line with the
 guidance of the UK Quality Code for HE and the UKRI Expectations for Doctoral Training. In their
 first term, all our PhD students undertake a Researcher Development Assessment to enable them
 to produce a Personal Development Plan. Our Researcher Development Programme, which is
 mapped onto the national Vitae Researcher Development Framework, offers over 300 research
 and transferable skills training sessions annually. As well as networking and funding opportunities
 for our postgraduate research community, including regular research cafés, an annual
 postgraduate festival, mental health and wellbeing activities, and postgraduate experience
 awards, since 2020 the GRC has also provided a compulsory development programme for
 research degree supervisors. The GRC manages our well-established ECR Network, as well as
 the annual ‘Grants Factory’ programme for staff at all career stages. In addition, the University’s
 Unit for the Enhancement of Learning and Teaching provides a range of training opportunities for
 our ECRs, including the PGCHE.

 Our research students benefit from a number of well-established doctoral training partnerships
 (DTPs). The University is a member of the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
 Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-East England (CHASE); the Economic and
 Social Research Council (ESRC) South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS); the Natural
 Environment Research Council (NERC) Advanced Research and Innovation in the Environmental
 Sciences (ARIES) DTP; and the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council
 (BBSRC) DTP: South Coast Biosciences (SoCoBio). In addition, we receive doctoral funding from
 the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) for 10-12 PhD studentships
 per annum. All of our DPTs are managed by our Graduate and Researcher College, and provide
 high-quality research training opportunities for our doctoral students and supervisors. In 2018, the
 University established its own Global Challenges Doctoral Centre (GCDC), dedicated to research
 projects that address the challenges to economic development and wellbeing in developing
 countries. The GCDC is central to our Global Challenges Research Fund strategy.

 In addition to our DTPs, our support for graduate research students is also reflected in our having
 funded over 60 Vice-Chancellor’s Research Scholarships per annum across the University since
 2014. This scheme has provided financial support to PGRs (tuition fees at the home rate plus a
 maintenance award at the UK Research Council rate) in return for a limited amount of UG
 teaching, significantly increasing the number of high-quality junior researchers across our principal
 research areas. From 2020, as part of our strategic orientation towards interdisciplinary research,
 6 of these VC’s Research Scholarships will be attached annually to our three Signature Research
 Themes.

 Equality and diversity in research careers
 The University is committed to the creation and support of a balanced, inclusive, and diverse
 community of researchers. This commitment is reflected in our having achieved an Athena SWAN
 institutional Bronze Award in 2014, and our submitting an application for an institutional Silver
 Award in 2020. Nine of our academic Schools have achieved Bronze Awards, and the School of
 Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science has held a Silver Award since 2018. We are a
 Disability Confident Employer and a Stonewall Diversity Champion. Our EDI activities are led by
 a dedicated team within Human Resources and supported by an EDI Champion on our University
 Executive Group. In our new Divisional structure, Deputy Directors of Division are the Divisional

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 EDI leads, and are members of the University’s Senate EDI Committee. Other institutional
 networks that serve to support equality and diversity for our researchers include our Disability Staff
 Network, the LGBT+ Staff Network, and the Women’s Network. In 2020, we applied for
 membership of the Advance HE Race Equality Charter.

 As our University EDI Policy makes clear, we seek to ensure that our staff and students are not
 subjected to any form of discrimination, including in relation to a protected characteristic, contract
 type, or trade union membership. Line managers have direct responsibility, and all members of
 staff and students have personal responsibility, for the implementation of our EDI Policy, ensuring
 that our staff have equitable access to internal funding, support for external funding applications
 and conference attendance, and all career development opportunities, including promotion and
 rewards. Our academic Schools are responsible for ensuring that the individual circumstances of
 all staff are taken fully into account when supporting them in their careers. In the new Divisional
 structure, Divisional EDI leads are required members of Divisional Promotions Committees, and
 our Executive Group EDI Champion sits on the University Promotions Committee.

 In addition to our University EDI Policy, we have established a suite of other HR policies, as well
 as resources, to ensure that EDI is fully embedded in our governance structures and activities.
 These include our University policies on Dignity at Work, Flexible Working Practices, and Family
 Friendly Practices, as well as information for staff and students on protected characteristics
 legislation and accessibility resources. All new staff are required to complete an e-learning module
 on EDI and unconscious bias, with regular top-up sessions being provided for existing staff.

 The University offers a range of flexible working options that enable our staff to achieve a work/life
 balance that meets their individual circumstances and needs. These options include homeworking,
 temporary reduced hours, and term-time-only working, supporting staff with caring responsibilities,
 those suffering from ill-health, and those returning from periods of leave (including parental and
 sickness leave). Appropriately reduced teaching loads are arranged for those staff returning from
 maternity and sickness leave.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 As outlined in our University Strategy 2025, one of our core ambitions for research and innovation
 is to build significantly on our achievement in external income to support the highest-quality
 research. Since 2014, the University has been awarded 1,383 external grants, with a total value
 of £124 million. This income has been secured from an increasingly wide range of funders, both
 national and international, including all of the UKRI research councils, as well as the British
 Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, the National Institute for Health Research, the Wellcome Trust,
 and the European Commission. In comparison with the previous REF cycle, our research income
 has increased by an average of 25.6% per annum since 2014.

 In order to support further growth in research income, our Research and Innovation Services (RIS)
 department includes a Funding and Partnership Development team, a Grants and Contracts
 Management team, and an Accounts Management team. In addition, each of our six Divisions
 includes a professional services Research and Innovation Management team. The responsibilities
 of both the RIS and the Divisional teams include identifying relevant external funding opportunities,
 as well as working closely with researchers to support larger interdisciplinary cross-Divisional
 applications. Since 2014, the University has invested £375k per annum to support the production
 of large and complex collaborative funding applications, including support for pilot projects as well
 as travel and subsistence.

 Infrastructure and facilities to support research and to enable and actualise impact
 Since 2014, the University has invested over £190 million in facilities and resources to support
 research and education at our Canterbury and Medway campuses, with a particular focus on
 actualising impact. Following consultation with the University population and local stakeholders,

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 in April 2019 the University published a Framework Masterplan for the continued development of
 the physical infrastructure of our main campus at Canterbury. Refurbishment and improvement of
 existing buildings and plans for new physical infrastructure will provide additional space for
 research activity. Immediate priorities include the development of around 12,000sqm of academic
 and administrative floor space; an investment in excess of £100 million. Our total institutional
 investment in laboratory space and equipment since 2014 has been £14.8 million.

 Since 2014, the main Templeman Library redevelopment has been completed, increasing the size
 of the Library by a third so that it now offers over 400 additional study spaces, as well as a 260-
 seat lecture theatre, a Special Collections and Archives Reading Room, exhibition space, café,
 and a PG-exclusive study space (the Senate Hub). In 2015, the Dockyard Church and the Sail
 and Colour Loft (Medway) were completely refurbished to include both research and teaching
 spaces. In 2016, the Wigoder Law Building opened, offering significantly improved learning
 facilities for our Law students, including the Kennedy Wong Moot Court, where students can argue
 moot points of law, and develop advocacy skills. In 2017, the Sibson Building opened, winning the
 RIBA Regional and National Award. Housing the Kent Business School and the School of
 Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science, Sibson is equipped with lecture theatres and
 seminar rooms, as well as breakout spaces for group work, computer labs, and our ASPIRE Lab
 Space. In 2019, the Kennedy Building opened as the new home for the School of Economics; it
 includes 4,000sqm of teaching space, IT suites, meeting rooms, breakout rooms, and social
 spaces. Most recently, in summer 2020 the Kent and Medway Medical School building was
 completed, with our first cohort of medical students commencing their studies in autumn 2020. Its
 opening heralds a major new phase in our commitment to developing effective, equitable health
 services across the region, as well as a robust clinical and applied health research base.




                                                                                             Page 8
