Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Institution: University of Bedfordshire

 1. Context and Mission

 Mission

 We maintain a research environment that supports our research objectives to:
    ●   Impact on policy, practice, technological, social, economic and cultural development,
        regionally, nationally and internationally;
    ●   Extend our income-generating capacity to include a sustainable and wide range of
        sources of research and knowledge exchange funding, from the private, public and third
        sector;
    ●   Strengthen our curriculum and the learning experience, and thereby the capabilities and
        employability prospects of our graduates;
    ●   Reflect the university’s academic strength and standing to a range of external
        stakeholders and communities;
    ●   Provide a basis for partnership-working within the university, with HEIs and other
        institutions;
    ●   Support staff engagement and the continuous development of our team in the full range
        of research, knowledge exchange and public engagement activities, within their
        academic roles.

 Research and academic enquiry underpins all aspects of our institutional mission to transform
 lives and make a positive impact on society. Our practice-based academic environment:
    ●   Encourages leaders to create public debate and to challenge and inform existing policies
        and practices;
    ●   Supports our partners and the communities we serve by providing high quality applied
        research to help them improve and grow and;
    ●   Creates opportunities for our students to understand and develop their capacity for
        innovation.

 We invest in research of excellent quality with the potential to impact positively on current and
 future challenges facing society; to directly influence policy making; and produce greater
 opportunities for impact by partnering with entrepreneurial organisations, and communities of
 practice.
 The Institution

 The University of Bedfordshire has two main campuses in Luton and Bedford, and smaller
 teaching sites in Aylesbury, Milton Keynes, London and Birmingham. We have 15,135 full-time
 undergraduate students and 4,700 Post Graduate (PG) students directly enrolled with the
 university with 12, 703 in 2019/20 studying in partnership institutions. The university is highly
 active globally and growth has focused on geographical hubs in South Asia, South-East Asia,
 the Caribbean, the Middle East and Europe, with particularly high growth in our portfolio of
 partnerships in Egypt, Vietnam, Pakistan, Oman and Jordan.

 The University has 1003.8 fte staff (1246.8 in 2014), comprising 34.1 fte (0 in 2014) research
 only contract staff, 64.2 fte teaching contracts (95.9 in 2014), 357.3 fte (531.2 in 2014) teaching
 and research staff. The remainder are non-academic professional service staff, with a very small
 number of tutors and hourly paid teaching staff.

 In 2019-20, the University reported a total income of £140.85M of which £128.49m is from
 teaching and educational grants and contracts, £3.39m is from research grants and contracts
 income and £8.97m is from operating and investment income. Overall research total income has


                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 increased from REF2014 £13,906,640 during the period of REF 2014 to £20,860,251 during
 REF 2021.


 The economic context of operation

 The university occupies a strategically important network of mid-sized towns, conurbations, and
 rural areas at the centre of the Oxford to Cambridge Arc. The main campuses are within the
 South East Midlands Local Economic Partnership (SEMLEP) area. The region has particular
 strengths in electronic engineering, aerospace, creative industries, food and drink,
 manufacturing and logistics.
 SEMLEP has a regional economy of £50b GVA, the fastest growing population of any LEP
 outside London, the third highest start-up and survival rate in England and Wales, home to
 83,000 businesses, of which 98.3% have fewer than 50 employees.

 The area has higher than national average rates of employment, but has relatively low
 productivity rates compared with other LEPs, due largely to a proliferation of traditionally low
 ‘productivity to number of jobs’ sectors such as logistics and food and drink/service. Similarly,
 the majority of local authorities report below national average wages for citizens with, for
 example, Luton Borough Council reporting a substantial proportion of senior posts being filled by
 people living outside the region, whilst a majority of lower paid posts filled by local citizens.

 Research investment and infrastructure

 The university has recently invested £180m in the main campuses to develop its social learning
 spaces and research facilities. This includes a £40m purpose-built, four-storey STEM building.
 This opened in 2019 with 6000m2 of teaching and laboratory space and allowed the university to
 offer a wider range of new science courses, including Pharmacology, Physics, Biochemistry,
 Chemistry, Geology and Mechanical Engineering. The building also includes a Science and
 Engineering Outreach Centre to promote the value of science and engineering to local schools.
 Other similar developments include a seven-storey £46m library, opened in 2016 at our Luton
 campus, where specialist support for researchers includes advice on open access options,
 mandate proposals, research skills, enhanced use of Scopus, Web of Science and obtaining
 specialist collections.

 To meet its strategic commitment to new areas of research, and aligning with the Smart Cities
 Institute agenda of examining data-driven solutions across the OxCam Arc, the university
 opened the Renewable Energy Innovation Centre (RENEW) in December 2019. This is a co-
 funded, strategic partnership between the university and TWI Ltd with the aim of becoming a
 world-class hub for engineering-based, renewable energy research and development.

 Research structure

 The university has four faculties; the University of Bedfordshire Business School; the Faculty of
 Creative Arts, Technologies and Science; the Faculty of Education and Sport; and the Faculty of
 Health and Social Sciences. Research is conducted within one of ten Research Institutes:
    ● Business and Management Research Institute (BMRI)
    ● Centre for Research in English Language Learning and Assessment (CRELLA)
    ● Institute of Applied Social Research (IASR)
    ● Institute of Biomedical and Environmental Science and Technology (IBEST)
    ● Institute for Health Research (IHR)
    ● Institute for Research in Applicable Computing (IRAC)
    ● Institute for Research in Education (IRED)
    ● Institute for Sport and Physical Activity Research (ISPAR)
    ● Research Institute for Media, Art and Performance (RIMAP)
    ● Research Institute for Smart Cities (RISC).

                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Each institute has a board that meets every term, attended by full/associate members, as well
 as professional service staff. They possess autonomy to create centres within their structure,
 organised to maximise and develop their emerging research strengths. Boards review progress
 against research plans and their contribution to REF and faculty objectives and plans. Reporting
 to the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, they also identify and discuss new
 research opportunities and initiatives, income generation and collaboration; review and respond
 to formal postgraduate student feedback and the contributions of research student
 representatives; and monitor aspects of equality and diversity relevant to the support and
 development of postgraduate students and staff.

 Research focus

 University research supports both social and economic development and productivity, and
 provides for a wider civic engagement throughout SEMLEP, the south east and the OxCam
 ARC, as well as having an international reach. Our specialist research areas include those that:

    ●   Inform national policy and practice in social policy and social work, and public health;
    ●   Examine and promote equality and inclusion in critical areas of public health and
        education;
    ●   Support regional industries and organisations in many diverse sectors, from artificial
        intelligence and gaming to media and sport, through to engineering and manufacturing;
    ●   Deliver highly specialised research in language education and assessment;
    ●   Improve environmental sustainability, such as air and water quality, renewable energy
        and power management;
    ●   Support and improve the performance and productivity of private business as well as
        public sector organisations.

 We enhance and develop these specialisms through leading/participating in partnerships and
 co-funded projects and draw upon multidisciplinary research themes where appropriate (e.g.
 those between informatics and health practitioners, and business management and artificial
 intelligence research.

 2. Strategy

 In 2014, Academic Board set the below objectives within its post-REF strategy. This section
 provides evaluation and examples noted for each to show how we have progressed with support
 for research.




                                                                                            Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   i.        Sustain the performance of areas in which our research is demonstrated through
             external measures to have the greatest impact

        ●    Within REF2014, the university submitted 11 UoAs. During REF2021 we will have nine
             UoAs, with research in UoA07 (Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences) and UoA18
             (Law) being maintained and accepted for small unit exception due to size.

         ●   Within a 2019 internal evaluation, the university’s REF2014 highest rated UoAs for
             impact, UoA03 (Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy), UoA22
             (Social Work and Social Policy) and UoA29 (English Language and Literature) are
             expected to be amongst our highest performers for impact in REF2021, with UoA23
             (Business and Management) also showing a strong increase, alongside UoA11
             (Computing and Informatics).

   ii.       Increase levels of excellence achieved in research we undertake

         ●   Our review also suggest that levels of output excellence are expected to be higher than
             in all UoAs submitted in REF2014. The university expects UoA03 (Allied Health
             Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy), UoA22 (Social Work and Social Policy)
             and UoA29 (English language and Literature) to again be among the highest performers
             and show an increase in levels of impact and percentage of outputs rated either 3* or 4*.

  iii.       Generate and invest in additional areas of research based on/related to, those
             specific strengths

 QR funding that is not invested centrally is allocated to Faculties. In 2015 and 2016 this was
 through a formulaic process based on research performance at REF eligibility level, and high-
 level performance in REF 2014 (flexed by research cost weights) across outputs, PGR
 completion and income generation. Subsequent years focused on maintaining budgeted
 commitments. Examples are as below:

         ●   Building upon successes in REF2014, IHR developed new programmes of research in
             healthy ageing in two specific areas – early years and older people.

             in partnership with Luton Borough Council, IHR conducted a series of research studies
             in child health, investing in a joint Research Fellow post for the evaluation of the Luton
             Flying Start programme (0-5 years old). This resulted in a jointly-funded PhD studentship
             examining the role of fathers in child development. Prof Randhawa is also a co-applicant
             for a National Institute for Health Research-funded study (£3.7m) from the Public Health
             Research programme – Evaluation of the Ultra-Low Emission Zone and its Impact on
             Child Health.

             The university has invested in the appointment of a Professor in Health & Ageing. and
             established a research programme related to frailty among older people, supporting
             Luton’s BAME population and physical activity interventions for frailty and sarcopenia.

        ●    We invested in the interdisciplinary and cross-departmental Substance Misuse and
             Ageing Research Team (SMART) to deliver strategic research programmes focused on
             priorities identified by stakeholders, including older people with alcohol problems.

        ●    In 2015, the university was appointed academic lead for a £25m, UK-wide programme
             Drink Wise, Age Well (DWAW) which ran from 2015-2020 with the aim of reducing
             alcohol-related harm in older people. The research programme changed Public Health
             England policy and its recommendations now inform professional practice aimed at
             reducing harmful drinking among older people.

        ●    Our investment in CRELLA has led to a new generation of assessments encompassing

                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            digitally mediated assessments. For example, Khabbazbashi and Galaczi (2020)
            compared different models for scoring spoken performance which informed the
            automated marking of digitally delivered speaking tests, new research in socio-cognitive
            test validation frameworks to research inter-test comparisons in professional (medical)
            domains, enabled the UK General Medical Council to assess its suitability for their own
            professional registration purposes

        ●   Stemming from existing research in environmental science and computing and our newly
            emerging theme/UoA of engineering, the RENEW is a co-funded strategic partnership
            between the university and TWI Ltd, based at their Cambridge headquarters, examining
            digital transformations of energy production and uses.

  iv.        Identify additional areas for development that represent the next set of potential
            excellence

 Linking to regional and national policy/frameworks (e.g National/Local Industrial Strategies), we
 have identified thematic networks, within which our institutes may also develop new
 perspectives and areas of expertise, as:

        ●   Health and demographic change;
        ●   Future cities;
        ●   The creative economy;
        ●   Safe and inclusive societies;
        ●   The bio-economy.

 This approach supports interdisciplinary research through specialist expertise. For example:

        ●   ISPAR and IHR regularly work together to develop interdisciplinary research projects,
            such as ‘Tailored Interventions to Reduce Sitting Behaviour in People with Type 2
            Diabetes: A Randomised-controlled Feasibility Study’, funded by Diabetes UK.

        ●   Similarly, the National Centre for Cyberstalking Research (within IRAC) is
            interdisciplinary in nature, drawing upon expertise working in different fields including
            computer science, psychology, sociology and law. They have conducted funded projects
            that include the Bedfordshire Cyber Awareness Programme, funded by the OFS/HEFCE
            and led to the publication by UUK of guidance for Universities: Changing the Culture:
            Tackling online harassment and promoting online welfare.

 Professional Services Support for Research

            Research and Knowledge Exchange (KE) support

        ●   Research collaborations, networks and partnerships with the wider community are
            supported internally and externally by the Innovation and Enterprise Service (IES),
            created to provide more effective central professional services to support research
            collaborations and also provide a more consistent and supportive approach to grant
            capture and post-bid contract management.

        ●   Our centralised and cost-effective approach to research institute support, underpinned by
            a university-wide CRM system for external organisation contacts, staff development and
            support for research funding and research degree provision.

        ●   Our research is applied and therefore achieves direct impact, but also achieves impact
            through KE and public engagement (e.g. research consultancy; accessing research
            facilities, or support for regional development through research into the region’s SME
            community).


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        Work conducted in 2020 by an independent economics consultancy suggested that for
        every £1 received for R&KE activities, the university generated £6.50 in additional Gross
        Value Added in the region. Also that the university has:

            o   Worked with over 1500 external organisations and businesses over the last three
                years in some financial way (e.g. by benefiting from our research in funded
                programmes, CPD and consultancy)
            o   Generated over £18m of regional development funds to utilise research expertise
                to stimulate the regional economy
            o   Contributed £70m gva to the regional economy, including £16m from CPD
                consultancy and £4m from student start-ups

 Open Access Research Publishing Policy

    ●   We make our research widely available and where appropriate include open access fees
        into all research proposals
    ●   Learning Resources and Service Excellence manage and support the use of the
        institution’s open access, cloud-based repository.
    ●   We provide training and guidance on Open Access for publishing, reviewing current
        practice and updating our Open Access Policy when required.

 Resources

 There are established print library collections at all four libraries consisting of journals,
 databases and books. Two thirds of all library acquisitions are now purchased in digital format
 and accessible to researchers over the internet from wherever research takes place.

 Ethical Research Policy

 We maintain a culture of research integrity that secures the value of our research.
 The university joined UKRIO and is signatory to the Concordat to support research integrity in
 2019 to:
    ●   Ensure research integrity practices are up to date and in-line with the sector’s best
        practices;
    ●   Promote good academic practice to PGR students and staff through training;
    ●   Include regular checks of work (by using Turnitin), and;
    ●   Enforce the university’s research integrity policy.


    University Research Ethics Committee (UREC)
 During 2016, a comprehensive review of research ethics processes was conducted by members
 of UREC, made up of members of the professoriate, institute staff, professional services staff
 and external members.

 The review recommended a consistent approach be used across all faculties, with the
 separation of taught course ethics processes from those applied in cases of staff and PGR
 students. School Ethics Panels are now responsible for further assessment and oversight of UG
 and PGT ethics proposals, recording outcomes and reporting to UREC; Research Institute
 Ethics Panels are responsible for assessment and oversight of staff and PGR proposals.

 UREC receives annual reports from its subcommittees in the schools and institutes and provides
 institutional oversight and advice.

 The University Ethics Policy is applied across all faculties, schools and institutes. and
 incorporates the requirements of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.


                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Future strategic goals for research and impact over the next five years.

    ●   Recent organisational change has seen the installation of a new Vice Chancellor,
        Professor Rebecca Bunting, a new senior staff structure and the ending of the previous
        University Strategic Plan 2017-20

    ●   In 2021 our focus is to devise a new corporate strategy and sub-strategies in research
        and KE

    ●   We expect to continue our investment in excellent research with the capacity for positive
        impact and our support for a sustainable research community and infrastructure in which:

            ❏ The research we invest in should be considered, or have the potential to be,
                excellent in quality and impact;
            ❏ Our current areas of excellence are sustained;
            ❏ Our research in psychology as a self-standing subject, engineering, and life
                sciences grows in size and quality.

 3. People

 Underpinning our research culture, the university seeks to:

    ●   Support continuity and leadership in its major research institutes;
    ●   Support early career researchers;
    ●   Develop/monitor processes that support equality and diversity in research;
    ●   Facilitate long-term relationships with national and international service providers and
        research funders;
    ●   Foster high quality in its research disciplines, underpinned by appropriate technical and
        information resources;
    ●   Support the development of strong PhDs and masters by research, research culture and
        quality training and supervision.

 Research Leadership

 Following REF2014, the university reviewed its policy on promotion to senior academic titles and
 since 2014, 13 Professors and 13 Readers have been appointed, of which five Professors and
 12 Readers have been internally promoted. All 14 of those staff that currently remain at the
 university will be returned under REF2021.

 We have maintained the full academic role at entry grades and largely avoided teaching-only
 contracts in all but a small number of specific cases in which practitioners offer a specific non-
 research-active value to learning.

 Through the Academic Workload Planning Framework, the allocation of research time is
 discussed during annual performance and development reviews and agreed in alignment with
 the University’s strategic research goals. This ensures that research ambitions of staff are
 facilitated as the opportunity is there for all to propose new and sustainable trajectories in
 research, without a pre-allocated time-allowance that would deter early career researchers and
 those starting research at a later point in their careers.

 The university has been an ‘Investor in People’ organisation since 2008, achieving gold standard
 in 2011, which was successfully re-accredited following an assessment in 2014. Reassessment
 took place in 2019 and the university is currently evaluating additional external benchmarks..

 We encourage researchers to take leadership roles that enable them to inform/steer the
 university’s research development through a sustained commitment to equality and diversity in
 theme and practice. The university has formal recognition agreements with Unison and UCU

                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and long-standing and effective arrangements for consultation and negotiation with members of
 both unions.

 Support for early career researchers (ECRs)

 In addition to the Organisational Development and Training Staff Development programme, early
 career researchers are supported through a mentoring and career development programme
 (https://www.beds.ac.uk/ihr/research-mentorship-scheme/) in which they are offered advice on
 areas such as developing a research strategy and attracting funding for projects.

 Equality and Diversity

 Central to the university’s preparation for REF2021 is its established commitment to the
 principles of equality and diversity within its mission. That is to say, to reduce the inequalities of
 outcome which result from socio-economic disadvantage, and as formulated in the Public Sector
 Equality Duty created by the Equality Act 2010, i.e. to have due regard in this, as in other
 functions, to the need to:

    ●   Eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct that is
        prohibited by the Act.
    ●   Advance equality of opportunity between people who share a characteristic and those
        who do not.
    ●   Foster good relations between people who share a characteristic and those who do not.

 Much of the university’s research is focused directly on improving equality and equity. Our
 commitment to equality and diversity in health and social policy per se underpins our strategic
 commitment to research in areas of health and public policy in, for example, investigation of the
 representation of black and minority ethnic groups in healthcare education and the workplace,
 and research into factors, barriers and enablers that affect the implementation of clinical
 commissioning policy to reduce health inequalities in the NHS.

 As part of our commitment to equality and diversity in research, the university has organised its
 preparation for REF2021 to ensure academic leadership of senior researchers is recognised and
 used appropriately, to secure transparency, consistency and accountability at each stage.

 All EDI-related training is under review to ensure it continues to be fit for purpose and provide
 the latest knowledge and skills. Particular attention is focused on a revision and updating of
 Unconscious Bias training which will be provided to all academic staff so that recruitment and
 selection and promotions are free of unintended bias and fully based on merit.

 Under the Head of People Development, a new staff strategy is emerging that aims to bring
 together training and development across the university - including for our research community -
 as well as review the range of accreditation and policies to support research staff. For example:

    ●   Preparations are in hand to commence our Athena Swan application. This initiative will
        provide a significant level of support for staff engaged in research and, whilst the focus
        will clearly be on female staff, it also provides an opportunity to ensure staff from across
        all protected groups are afforded access to opportunities to get involved in research and
        are adequately supported in every way to continue and progress their research
        endeavours.

    ●   In 2015, the university reviewed and regained its Positive About Disabled People and
        Stonewall accreditation and is considering further awards as part of the work programme
        of the Equality and Diversity Committee.

 Facilitate relationships with service providers and funders


                                                                                                 Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Following a review of REF2014, two senior roles were created to reflect specific commitments
 and approaches to research. The role of Director of Innovation and Enterprise, with a remit to
 integrate research and KE/innovation to deliver university objectives in both areas. Reporting to
 the Director to ensure complementarity, a broadened role of Head of Research Development
 extends leadership of the Research Graduate School to include support for researcher
 development more generally.

 Fostering high quality research

 Following REF2014, a review of research institute membership, focus and management took
 place as part of a programme of research development and intensification. Research institutes
 identified focal areas for activity and developed programmes to support researchers already
 producing high quality and high-impact research outputs, offering expert knowledge and
 mentoring while also building capacity for early career researchers with the potential to produce
 excellent research.

 The university is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and a member of Vitae. All training and development activities provided across the
 university (both centrally and at research institute level) to support both PGR students and
 research staff are mapped to the Vitae RDF, which allows for the identification of training and
 support needs. The university’s ‘Training – Assisted Study and Request for CPD Policy’ was
 updated in 2014 and 2018. It is applicable to staff on full-time, part-time and fixed term contracts.

 The university participated in the CEDARS survey in 2019-20. Most areas covered by the survey
 (including staff development for research-active staff and researchers) were seen as having a
 positive effect on staff members’ professional growth. An action implementation plan based on
 areas needing improvement is now being developed by senior staff. This includes a university-
 wide research mentorship programme (launching in late 2020-21) and an enhanced training
 programme for mid-career academics.

 In 2013, the university received its HR Excellence in Research Award. Since then, its action
 plans have been consistently approved for implementation and we continue to maintain this
 award.
 Development of strong research student culture, quality training and supervision

 University-wide research skills development training is provided through the Research Skills
 Development Programme (RSDP), introduced in January 2019 and mapped to the RDF,
 covering all four quadrants of the planner. The programme (currently comprising over 30
 sessions) is tailored to a variety of research skill proficiency levels, from PGR students to ECRs
 and mid-career researchers.

 In addition to the training programme of research support, one-to-one sessions are provided for
 those whose commitments prevent them from attending regularly scheduled sessions, but who
 need to complete their training. Training sessions are organised in semester blocks, with each
 session held at least three times a year; some sessions (e.g. supervision training) are held
 monthly. Research institute directors and PGR leads monitor attendance and encourage staff to
 update their training at the earliest opportunity https://www.beds.ac.uk/ies/we-mean-
 business/academic-journey/academics/research-development-training .

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    ●   The work of IES is governed and directed by the university’s strategic plan and the
        university’s HEIF Strategy. Within IES, a central bid support unit assists researchers to
        access research funding information, bid for/secure funding and successfully manage
        costings and contracts to deliver excellent research. All external research funding bids
        come through this unit.

                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    ●   IES also has a business partnership unit and a corporate project team. Staff from these
        teams provide access for researchers to many external relationships within the region
        and beyond, and act as a ‘front door’ to the university for external organisations.

    ●   For the first time since 2014, university funding applications in the year 2019-20 saw a
        fall, owing to the withdrawal/re-focus of funding streams due to Covid-19. However,
        despite the unprecedented challenges posed by the pandemic, the university submitted
        121 bids for funding.

    ●   Researchers log their interests with IES and then ‘horizon scan’, sending any suitable
        opportunities to them directly. Approximately 500 specially selected research bidding
        opportunities are sent to academics annually and within the terms of reference for each
        Institute is a requirement for a member of IES to attend each institute board meeting,
        where income generating opportunities are discussed.

    ●   IES provides a post-bid project management function aimed at harmonising the
        approach to research project management across institutes, reducing risk to reputation
        of the university as well as mitigating financial clawback related to project non-
        compliance. This entails a series of internal ‘soft-audits’ and focuses upon working with
        the PI to understand a range of qualitative and quantitative areas of the research project
        and provide assurance that areas typically related to failing research projects, such as
        poor relationships with funders or partners, are avoided. The central audits are confined
        to the top 20 research projects in terms of size, with institutes responsible for evaluating
        the management of smaller projects

 Institutional-level resources and infrastructure and Facilities

 From initial recording on our Research Management Administration System to publication on our
 Open Access Repository, we make our research available to ensure reproducibility. We run
 reinforcement training on experiment design and complementary academic development
 courses. Datasets are examined in accordance with GDPR and other policies and made
 accessible as possible, together with methodologies, structures and metadata.

 This cross-usage of physical infrastructure also works in both directions and at our new (2020)
 Aylesbury campus, we partner with (e.g.) Stoke Mandeville Hospital for access to specialist
 medical facilities, as well as utilising a range of other specialist facilities within our RENEW
 Institute at TWI Ltd headquarters.




                                                                                             Page 10
