Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution:

 1. Context and mission

 Leeds Beckett is an ambitious university with 26000 students and 2787 staff of whom 964 (by
 headcount) are academics based in schools with teaching and/or research responsibilities. The
 Vice Chancellor (VC) is supported by three Deputy Vice Chancellors (DVC) (Research and
 Enterprise, Education, and Resources) and two Pro Vice Chancellors (Global, and Business
 Engagement) who lead the delivery of the institution’s strategy in consultation with the governing
 body and staff.
 Deans lead our 10 schools, delivering UG/PG programmes and pursuing research, focused in 15
 Units of Assessment (UoA). A Director of Research (DoR) leads each UoA and supports the
 University leadership to deliver agreed research objectives. The Graduate School coordinates
 recruitment, supervision, and training of PGRs.
 We are an anchor institution for our city region (as stated in our 2016-21 strategy) with a clear
 mission to use our knowledge, skills and resources to make a positive and decisive difference
 to people, communities and organisations. The City of Leeds is home to around 3 million
 people, has over 140 ethnicities (2011 census) with BAME communities comprising 18% of the
 population. Across the city region there are wide differentials in levels of socio-economic security
 and BAME populations are over-represented in postcodes with low participation in HE and relative
 levels of poverty.
 Our VC is chair of the Leeds City Anchor Institution’s group, and through our multiple, longstanding
 and connections into the NHS, education and regional business we are partners in the city’s
 inclusive growth strategy. We are active members of the University Alliance and the Yorkshire
 Universities network.
 2. Strategy
 A Plan for Positive Change
 “Leading Research and Academic Enterprise” is at the forefront of our 2016-21 strategic plan,
 of equal importance to “An Excellent Education and Experience”. This has 3 strands to increase
 research activity and quality:
 1. Research Intensity: We will increase the number of staff engaged in high quality research.
    We intentionally focused activity in 15 UoAs. Each is led by a DoR (new role in this REF period)
    who is a senior Professor reporting directly to the DVC (Research) and operating entirely within
    a School/s. This deliberate independence has ensured that research development is
    centrally embedded in the activity of each School.

    Growth in research intensity is demonstrated by annual REF audits. The proportion of staff
    with significant responsibility for research has almost doubled from 220 in REF2014 (23%)
    to 410 in REF2021 (43%). A “tipping point” has been passed: we now have more than 65%
    staff engaged in research activity at different levels.
    The REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP) was developed to drive our upwards research trajectory.
    Staff apply for one of the following statuses, subject to a rigorous peer-review process:
    a) SRR (significant responsibility for research) – all staff (0.8FTE+) who prove they are
       independent researchers get a minimum of 20% of their time to pursue research (in
       addition to 150 hours of Research and Scholarly Activity). Every member of academic staff
       with SSR is included in our REF 2021 return, thus demonstrating independence is the only


                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        research quality threshold.
    b) WTI (working towards independence): staff who cannot yet demonstrate independence
       but are clearly working towards it, also access resources and time for research but at a
       lower level than those with SRR. WTI is a development status and staff are supported to
       achieve research independence. Staff with WTI are expected to gain SRR status during
       the next planning cycle.
    The success of our development strategy is further demonstrated by the appointment of four
    staff to REF2021 sub-panels (UoA 4, 13 and 2 appointments to UoA 24). Two of these are
    long-standing staff members. We had no panel representation in 2014.
 2. Research Environment: We will direct resources and grow our PGR cohort to enable more
    staff to participate in research.
    Investment, the appointment of senior leadership and an integrated governance framework
    has combined to increase the research environment [substantially] over this REF period.
    All QR allocation is devolved to schools to develop research activities; 70% is allocated in
    proportion to REF2014 performance, and the remaining 30% is allocated to support university
    strategic priorities.
    A Graduate School administers all research student activity, overseen by the Research Degree
    Sub-Committee. We have used central research overheads to match-funded PhD
    programme which has contributed to a growth in PGR completions by 80% to 305 in this REF
    period.
    We invested ~£700,000 to develop staff research capability through part time doctoral study,
    particularly in disciplines where entry is via practice; 56 staff have graduated and embarked
    on a research career this REF period.
    Leadership was strengthened by appointing a Professorial Director of Research and
    Enterprise who leads the Research and Enterprise service (RES).
    A range of policies require staff to research with integrity and further ethical scrutiny is provided
    by the Research Ethics Sub-Committee. The Open Research policy ensures research is
    openly available and requires researchers to be ‘as open as possible, as early as possible’.
    The revised annual internal promotions process, complemented by external peer review,
    supports promotion to Professor and Reader (74 in current REF cycle).
    The interdisciplinary school structure creates opportunities for wider collaboration as
    evidenced by cross-school research centres for example, the Centre for Culture and the Arts
    linking our Arts and Humanities researchers and the Centre for Applied Obesity Research
    across sport and health disciplines.
 3. Research & Enterprise Prestige: We will increase our income to deliver research.
    Research Income for this REF period is £20.8m which is more than double the £9.94m we
    declared in REF 2014. It has not just grown in magnitude as we now can demonstrate income
    from prestigious funders such as EU, NIHR, AHRC and EPSRC. In line with a HEIF strategy
    that prioritises partnership working to support our research and knowledge exchange, £82m
    of collaborative/contract research and consultancy income has been generated.
    Staff are encouraged and supported to bid for research grants. Improvement in our
    environment and providing dedicated time for staff to engage in research has supported the
    increase in our research income. Investment in RES has significantly enhanced our success


                                                                                                  Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    rate and the support available for staff to secure large prestigious research grants.
 Research with Real World Impact
 In keeping with our role in Leeds as a lead “anchor” institution, we encourage collaborations and
 partnerships to address societal challenges. Our approach has focused on:
 1. Embedding Impact across the Research Cycle: Impactful research projects are promoted,
    particularly Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (15 in this REF period). We also support
    partnership working to offer staff the opportunity to address critical challenges (for example
    our partnership with Leeds Teaching Hospital Trust supports research across Allied Health
    professions)
 2. Growing Organisational Capacity to Engage in Impact: We have invested £150k in cross-
    disciplinary research impact coaching, delivered by external consultants.
 3. Providing Resources to support Impact: We implemented the Symplectic Impact Module
    and invested in 2 Impact Officers to work with individual researchers supporting and advising
    them in embedding impact in their research activities.
 We have sought to intensify our impact across three domains:
 1. Health and wellbeing: Working closely with our spin out company, Morelife Ltd, (£10m annual
    turnover - 2020) we have directly improved the health of 14,000 children/adults annually
    through research-led obesity treatment (LBU-Obesity UoA24). We have set the standard for
    dementia care (LBU-Dementia UoA3) and empowered women with cancer to make informed
    fertility decisions (LBU-Fertility UoA4).
 2. Culture: We see culture as a lens through which to promote social justice, diversity, equity
    and inclusion and quality of life. Pride of Place research gave a new voice to LGBGT history
    (LBU-LGBGT History UoA28), Cinage/Live promoted active ageing through the arts (LBU-
    Cinage UoA 33) and we have improved the global culture of doping in sport (LBU-Antidoping
    UoA 24).
 3. Sustainability: Our novel heat loss modelling of buildings has reduced wasted resource and
    carbon inefficiency (LBU-Energy Efficient Homes UoA13). Research into inclusive and
    sustainable economic growth defined the importance of anchor organisations to their locale
    (LBU-Anchors UoA17), we encouraged civilian peacekeeping to save lives in Myanmar (LBU-
    UCP UoA19) and developed sustainable water management systems in rural Malawi (LBU-
    Water Quality UoA13).
 Building for Future Success
 In July 2021 we will adopt a new university strategic plan which will consolidate research activity
 around areas of demonstrable strength and significance. We will prioritise, grow, and seek critical
 mass in high quality and high impact research that contribute to UN goals, specifically: Good
 Health and Wellbeing, Quality Education, Gender Equality, Reduced Inequalities, Clean Water
 and Sanitation, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure,
 Sustainable Cities and Communities. Schools will further integrate their research and teaching
 in all subjects, so research better informs teaching and vice versa.
 Our new strategy has several aims:
 1) Research Intensity – 80% staff will have SRR
    Through recruitment we will seek to employ new staff who have or will achieve SSR in
    areas of research to build critical mass and impact. Our Professors will have a research
    leadership role and provide support for their colleagues through mentoring and research


                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    planning. One example is the planned launch of an Obesity Institute, building upon our track
    record of excellence in research and knowledge transfer.
 2) Research Environment - More research must have international reach to achieve the highest
    levels of excellence in terms of originality, significance and rigour
    Though our global engagement strategy we will enhance current international partnerships
    to build our research networks and collaborative research.
 3) Research Prestige – More income is needed to grow our increasingly excellent research
    We intend to maintain our current trajectory of doubling research income every 5 years through
    focusing where we have proven and emerging success. Central resource will be enhanced to
    support staff through strategic bidding that enhances and develops the originality, significance
    and rigour of their research.
 3. People

 A Community of Great People
 Our strategy of staff development and selective recruitment has increased and enhanced our
 research community.
 Through this REF period 36 permanent and 5 fixed term professorial and 31 permanent and 26
 fixed term research fellow appointments have been made. In addition, we have rewarded
 excellence through an annual promotion route to Professor and Reader. Since 2014, 24
 Professorial and 51 Readers (68%/32% male/female split) were appointed through internal
 promotion. We also chose to strategically appoint 25 graduate teaching assistants, a
 developmental role combining research degree study with a teaching role.
 We have placed great importance on staff combining research and teaching. As a result, we
 had 4 permanent “research only” staff on the census date. Since 2014, we have supported 56
 academics to gain a doctoral qualification and a further 49 staff are currently studying. Formally,
 only 2% staff (by headcount) are recorded as early career researchers (ECRs). However, many
 longstanding staff need similar support to an ECR, as although they have been an academic for
 many years, they are inexperienced researchers or have been recently awarded PhDs.
 Staff Development to Build Capability
 We have successfully retained the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award
 (first awarded 2015). This recognises our continued commitment to the career development and
 management of research staff through the seven principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers.
 The Academic Development Programme upskills staff in all aspects of research, for example:
 how to apply and manage grants; open access; open research; responsible metrics, and
 research data management. Our subscription to Vitae informs and underpins all our training.
 Many staff have taken advantage of these since 2014 with an average participation of 53%
 female and 47% male. A further 43 staff have completed the AdvanceHE Aurora programme.
 Over 150 attendees have participated in leadership, team building, and networking sessions
 for senior staff with 65% of attendees being female. Follow-up shows that 32% of attendees
 have since been promoted. There is a well embedded internal network of coaches, linked to a
 city-wide network, including Leeds City Council and NHS Trusts. Available to all colleagues,
 many academics and senior academic leaders have successfully participated.
 The Annual Research Conference is well attended and provides an opportunity to share best
 practice, develop new collaborations and celebrates excellent research across the university.

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Following a consultation with our ECR community, their Development Programme was
 refreshed to better meet their needs. Direct links are now made to the four domains within Vitae’s
 RDF which assists ECRs in making the right career choices.
 We also operate a two-year cycle of appointing senior lecturers to the Research Degree Sub-
 Committee (RDSC). This improves their understanding of process, policies and best practice. It
 also offers an invaluable opportunity to reflect on their approach to supervision.
 A Fair Community for All
 We are committed to creating a positive working environment where everyone is respected,
 valued and supported to achieve excellence.
 Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Framework and our Anti-Racism statement makes
 clear our principles for inclusion, including our stand against all forms of racism and commitment
 to anyone who experiences racism. This ethos flows throughout the university; we are Disability
 Positive employers and hold Bronze institutional Athena Swan accreditation.
 The EDI Steering group is led by DVC(Resources) and includes senior leaders from across the
 University. It supports the EDI Committee which ensures committed and effective governance of
 EDI matters. The steering group are overseeing institutional Athena Swan reaccreditation,
 ensuring active membership of the Race Equality Charter, and building our relationship with the
 Stonewall Diversity Champion Programme. Our active Equality Forums (Race and Equality,
 Disability Action Group, Gender, Faith and Belief, Rainbow Rose) comprise colleagues from
 across the university and each is represented on the EDI committee. Through that committee
 they are active in developing EDI policy and lead events including our Annual Race lecture,
 Gender Research Conference, participation in Leeds Pride and women’s history month.
 We celebrate international days of difference, including International Day of People with
 Disabilities (December) and International Women’s Day (March) and recognise global issues
 such as the Black Lives Matter campaign. In 2018 our equality work was recognised with a
 Vercida award and a place in the Top 10 of the UK’s most LGBT-inclusive employers.
 We also offer equality and diversity development sessions such as ‘Trans Awareness’ and
 ‘Cultural Awareness’. Furthermore, staff leading the REF submission underwent compulsory
 sessions addressing unconscious bias. We are launching a Diversity Mentoring programme in
 collaboration with other regional HEI’s supporting equal career progression opportunities for all.
 We included a comprehensive Equality Impact Assessment with our REF CoP and further
 reviewed the findings at each stage of our submission process and will review following
 submission.
 We are one of 11 HEIs with a gender balanced Board (Leaders in Education Report 2018) and
 ensured that gender balances were observed on all REF panels, wherever possible. Our mean
 gender pay gap is significantly below the sector mean: 9.2% in 2019 (2020 figures not yet
 available) compared to 16.1%. Our BAME staff with SRR constitute 15% of our submission which
 is 1% higher than the percentage across the whole staff cohort. 4% of our staff (FTE) with SRR
 have a declared disability which is the same proportion as the whole academic population. Of
 the submitted staff 44% are female (FTE), which is slightly below the 47% total female staff.
 We maximise the benefits of flexible approaches to how we work, including the location, pattern
 and hours of work. This has been particularly valued and effective particularly during the Covid-
 19 pandemic for those with caring responsibilities, on parental/maternity/adoption leave, and
 grandparents achieve a balance between their responsibilities and work. An Employee Assistance
 Programme; in-house Occupational Health service; partnerships with organisations such as Mind


                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and Macmillan; our wellbeing framework that offers resources and support and a Working Carers
 Network in partnership with Leeds Carers are all examples of the supportive environment that we
 provide.
 A Vibrant Community of Research Students
 At the census date we had 705 research students and supported 305 completions during this
 REF cycle.
 The Graduate School has responsibility for quality of research degree programmes. The Student
 Administration Management System (HAPLO), records student progress and provides the
 framework for the Research Degree Sub Committee. We are compliant with the QAA Quality
 Code, Part B: Assuring and Enhancing Academic Quality, Chapter B11: Research Degrees,
 expectations and indicators and have robust policies for management of research students. Our
 success is demonstrated by ranking of 23rd out of 103 universities in the 2019 AdvanceHE
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey and being 12th and 13th respectively for Supervision
 and Research Skills.
 We have 458 PGR supervisors who qualified through our qualification “Being a Research
 Degree Supervisor” (including PGR Mental Health and Wellbeing) and having their CV ratified by
 Research Degree Sub-Committee. Additionally, we recommend the completion of Epigeum’s
 “Supervising Doctoral Studies”. Supervisory teams comprise a Director of Studies supported by
 a supervisor (and occasionally an advisor) who meet PGR students at least monthly.
 All students are supported to attend conferences, have access to university facilities, to Vitae and
 Epigeum courses. Full-time students also have a deskspace and a laptop/datastick. On
 enrollment, they must attend an Induction with both central and school components. First year
 students must pass a Confirmation of Registration (4 months FT/ 6 months PT) and each year
 complete an Annual Progression. These milestones offer quality assurance and scrutiny as well
 as experience in discussing research with other academics. In addition, students are required to
 complete the Research Training Programme (RTP), an individualised development plan
 building research and employability skills based on the UKCGE domains. Further enrichment of
 the student experience is provided by development days, research cafes and annual PGR
 Conference.
 Research students are integrated within the university community through schools, subject
 groups and centres. The Research Student Society (which is part of the Student Union) works
 closely with the Graduate School to provide feedback opportunities. The voice of the PGR is
 heard through PGR representatives on Research and Enterprise Committee and Research Ethics
 Sub-Committee. Schools offer PGR students the opportunity to teach once they have the relevant
 training.
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income to Support Excellent Research
 Across the REF period, £82m of research and consultancy income has been generated which
 includes £20.8m research income and features major awards from funders such as NIHR, EU,
 AHRC and EPSRC. KTP applications have been particularly prioritised and we have had 15
 awards including 2 management KTPs.
 As an anchor university, we also engage income from consultancy to support our growing
 research ambitions. This income (as reported by HE-BCI) was £61.3m across the REF period with
 pleasing year on year increases. Our success in attracting consultancy income placed us 14 th in
 the table of UK HEI by value in 18/19.

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 All QR is allocated to schools to support research development and biddable pots of HEIF to
 further encourage applied research. The GCRF allocation is used strategically as seedcorn
 funding to support academics develop research with ODA compliant partners, such as dementia
 research in Malaysia, alternative applications for waste in Ivory Coast and tourism in Tanzania.

 We have actively sought to increase the quality and ambition of our funding applications.
 Significant and successful examples include REDWOLF (£2m European Commission), DEEP
 (£1.9m BEIS) and Whole Systems Obesity (£1.6m Public Health England). We have developed a
 symbiotic relationship with our spin-out company MoreLife Ltd, who have secured contracts to
 deliver Integrated Healthy Lifestyle Services (IHLS) to local authorities supported and evaluated
 by our research team.
 To ensure quality and consistency, all external bids over £50k are approved by DVC (Research).
 Research Development Managers work closely with identified academics to encourage bidding
 activity. Our internal peer review process provides prospective PIs with support and feedback
 throughout the bidding process. Written comments are sought on all bids from relevant colleagues
 to improve rigour and quality. For larger bids, staff present their proposal to a review panel of
 senior academics and receive feedback to inform the development of the bid. Wherever possible,
 this panel is gender balanced.
 For strategically important funding calls, the “best” bid is selected through an open competition.
 Shortlisted projects are presented at a “sandpit” event to a panel of senior staff, who select the bid
 with the best chance of success.

 Business development managers work with schools and support income from knowledge transfer
 and commercialisation. The IP policy is designed to encourage academics by granting a share of
 any net benefit (60% of net benefit under £100k and 80% above £100k).

 Professional Services Committed to Support Excellent Research
 Our full range of professional services are aligned with the needs of our research community.
 Research and Enterprise offers full-service support to all staff. The Research Team supports
 research grant bidding and oversees costings in Agresso Research and Enterprise Management
 System (REMS). To accelerate impact, Research and Impact Officers support staff and schools.
 The Post Award Team administer funded research projects, ensuring deadlines are met. They
 also project management large pan-university contracts. The Business Development Team seek
 opportunities for consultancy and contract research, generating income and activity to support
 research. RES provides administrative support to all research governance processes.
 Library and Learning Innovation deliver 24/7 access to research collections physically and
 online (over 380k books and 150k journal titles). The institutional Open Access repository
 (http://eprints.leedsbeckett.ac.uk) emerged from a successful bid for JISC funding and Figshare
 is our institutional research data repository. Our CRIS, Symplectic Elements, collects metadata
 about research outputs, automatically links to staff web profiles, and feeds into CORE
 (https://core.ac.uk/). The repository is harvested by google and CORE to maximise international
 discoverability of research outputs. Fulltext repository items have been downloaded more than
 1.6m times. Staff engage in national networks supporting Open Access and our first repository
 manager was technical officer for the UKCORR network 2010-18. Prior to the introduction of
 Transitional agreements funding for Gold OA has been mostly through QR allocation in schools.
 Investment of over £138m in an Estate Masterplan has, to date, delivered “homes for all
 schools”; discrete, individualized locations for each school to meet the needs of their particular
 subject areas. In 2020 we unveiled a new building for the Carnegie School of Sport at Headingley

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Campus. This is a hub for elite athletes, sports and industry partners and sports research. It
 includes a hypoxic laboratory, a health and wellbeing studio, a covered 60m sprint and walking
 track, strength/conditioning spaces, and changing/recovery facilities. The new Leeds School of
 Arts building integrates research and teaching in fashion, music and performing arts. It includes
 a performance theatre; a Dolby Atmos movie cinema; TV and film studios; multimedia studios
 (black box, green screen, stop motion, dubbing and music recording); acoustic labs and a host of
 post-production suites. A key aspect in the design of each building are networking spaces for
 students, staff, and partners to foster inter-disciplinary research, collaboration, and knowledge
 sharing. In keeping with our civic mission, we make all facilities available to our local community
 (Law School Clinics, Sport facilities, Covid training for NHS staff).
 IT Services provides infrastructure to manage, store and share research data, working with
 internal and external collaborators. There is a robust governance and support process for new
 software and hardware. Staff have access to a wide range of software to support them from
 Grantfinder for funding opportunities, ZOHO for partnerships and opportunities and
 Agresso/REMS for finance. We also have analysis tools such as MATLAB, SPSS and NViVo.
 Our Communications team support public engagement through initiatives such as the Transform
 programme which promotes inspirational and innovative academics, writing for “The
 Conversation”, regular blogs and podcasts, and a media centre which connects to academic
 experts.
 The Importance of Good Governance
 Research and Enterprise Committee, provides the governance for research, chaired by the DVC
 (Research and Enterprise). Directors of Research are ex-officio members, as is the Director of
 Research and Enterprise. It is a sub-committee of Academic Board and the following sub-
 committees have devolved responsibilities:
       Research Degrees Sub-Committee (RDSC) overseeing PGR matters
       Research Ethics Sub-Committee (RESC) leads ethics considerations and conducts annual
        audits to provide assurance of compliance by staff and students
       University Research Forum (URF) is an advisory body on areas of strategic importance.
       REF Strategy Panel provides oversight of our submission as stated in REF2021 CoP.
 All research projects are subject to ethical scrutiny. Local Research Ethics Co-ordinators
 manage most cases and report to RESC annually. An online system provides auditable ethics
 assurance.
 The highest standards of research integrity are assured by the Code of Good Practice for
 Research, defining the expected standards of research and enhanced by membership of UK
 Research Integrity Office (UKRIO).
 The Policy for Investigating Allegations of Misconduct in Research provides guidance on the
 appropriate procedures where there are integrity concerns. (In this REF period, there were 2
 misconduct investigations, one was unfounded and the other partially upheld due to non-
 declaration of a personal interest). Policies are benchmarked against, comparator universities,
 principles of Universities UK Concordat to support Research Integrity (2019), RCUK Policy and
 Guidelines on the Governance of Good Research Conduct (2013) and the UK Research Integrity
 Office’s Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct in Research (2008).
 Our Statement on the Responsible Use of Research Metrics demonstrates our commitment to
 the principles set out in the Declaration on Research Assessment, Metric Tide report (2015),
 Leiden Manifesto (2015), and UK Forum for Responsible Research Metrics.


                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



 External Networks to Enhance our Research
 Membership of University Alliance provides peer support, lobbying and collaborative opportunities
 to work and benchmark with similar institutions. Networking within Association of Research
 Managers and Administrators, Research and Enterprise Network for Universities and UK Council
 of Graduate Education provide access to best practice and peer support. We actively participate
 in Yorkshire Universities and West Yorkshire Innovation Network to encourage regional
 collaborations. Recently, our expert advice informed the West Yorkshire Combined Authority Local
 Industrial Strategy.

 Over 50 formal research partnerships have been established with organisations such as Leeds
 City Council, Public Health England, Ministry of Defence, Rugby Football Union, Yorkshire County
 Cricket Club, Royal British Legion, Institute of Contemporary Arts, London and Leeds Dance
 Partnership. We have senior level representation on the Leeds Business Improvement District,
 Leeds City Region LEP, Leeds and West Yorkshire Chamber of Commerce, Leeds Innovation
 District, Leeds Anchors network, and Leeds Academic Health Partnership.
 Internationally, staff have links with many prestigious universities such as Academy of Sciences
 (China), Newcastle and Sydney (Australia), Leiden and Utrecht (Netherlands), University of the
 Free State (South Africa), Georgia and North Carolina (USA), Toronto (Canada), Leipzig
 (Germany), Zurich (Switzerland), Lund and Mid-Sweden (Sweden).
 Looking Ahead
 The University is proud of its recent achievements. We have almost doubled the number of staff
 with SRR and doubled research income. We have improved the originality, significance and
 rigour of our research and impact. This upward trajectory gives confidence that we can continue
 to improve and fully expect that the new strategy will build upon this success. Equality, diversity,
 and inclusion principles will continue to underpin everything we do.
 Our robust plans to further embed research into our environment will be realised through
 strategic investment in areas of excellence, building our global outlook, and working hard to
 enhance our staff capabilities.




                                                                                              Page 9
